## 1989-1994: Into “the Second Decade”

4

## Summary

## Extended

## Main

### Introduction

> The male homosexual population was the first in this country to feel the effects of the disease. But in spite of what you may have heard, the number of heterosexual cases is growing. – *Understanding AIDS* mailer, 1988

By “the second decade” of the epidemic, rates of HIV/AIDS among heterosexual people, especially women of color and IV drug users, were rising. Gay men were still at the highest risk, but were less often the focus of educational campaigns, news reports, and radio and television programs. AIDS activist Phill Wilson called the focus on women with AIDS at the Tenth International AIDS Conference in 1994 an “‘at-risk group of the year’ approach to epidemiology.” While the media often focused on women and heterosexuals with HIV/AIDS, gay and lesbian organizations provided education to their own communities. The national AIDS educational mailer “Understanding AIDS,” based on Surgeon General Koop’s report, did not include any clearly indicated images of gay men and only mentioned them explicitly in statements about how people of all sexualities were at risk. Rather than provide targeted, useful information about the epidemic to gay men, the government and news outlets often focused on how heterosexuals could get HIV. 

The programs in this section reflect a more organized approach to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The basic facts of HIV/AIDS had been established, and the epidemic had been raging for a decade. In this section, readers will encounter *The AIDS Quarterly* and *The Health Quarterly*, two WGBH series that closely examined the epidemic for several years. *The AIDS Quarterly* covered a variety of topics relating to the epidemic, including racially segregated healthcare, women with AIDS, HIV/AIDS in prison, and the FDA drug approval process. Other radio and television broadcasts in this section include an interview with filmmaker Marlon Riggs, programs about women with AIDS, and one about protecting children from HIV/AIDS. This section also notes additional national coverage of the epidemic. 



### *The AIDS Quarterly*

> The mission of this series is not to please one constituency or another, but to provide a forum for public debate on the [AIDS] issue. We’re producing the only ongoing national TV series about AIDS. Instances of controversy should in no way undercut the effectiveness of what we’ve done—and intend to do.  –  *The AIDS Quarterly* project director Renata Simone

In 1989, WGBH in Boston began to produce *The AIDS Quarterly*, a PBS series that reported on the epidemic and was “widely regarded as television’s most ambitious and comprehensive look at the AIDS epidemic,” Joseph Kahn reported in the *Boston Globe*. The magazine-style program included news updates, interviews and analysis, and documentaries. Of all the programs featured in this exhibit, AIDS Quarterly is particularly important, because it was intended to help fill an absence of consistent, quality coverage of the epidemic. Host Peter Jennings made this clear at the beginning of the very first broadcast, when he criticized a lack of media coverage despite rising case numbers, and when he admitted, “We in the media have not always been very helpful to you in understanding AIDS.” This self-awareness and dedication to regular reporting uniquely positioned The AIDS Quarterly in the AIDS media landscape. Until *The AIDS Quarterly*, the public broadcasting series that most consistently discussed AIDS was *The MacNeil/Lehrer Report* and *NewsHour*, which had been examining the epidemic since 1982. 

The *AIDS Quarterly* inaugurated its magazine series with an overview of the epidemic. The [first episode](/catalog/cpb-aacip_15-61rfjm96), which premiered on February 28, 1989, began by following the work of the Reagan administration’s Presidential Commission on the Human Immunodeficiency Virus Epidemic, established in 1987 by [Executive Order 12601](https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/executive-order-12601-presidential-commission-the-human-immunodeficiency-virus-epidemic). The commission was tasked with writing a report on the state of the epidemic and recommendations for governmental action. The program thus started its examination of the epidemic through the eyes of the presidential commission and particularly through the perspective of Admiral James D. Watkins, who became its chairman and who explained the commission’s work throughout the segment. The commission, which experienced turnover and controversies during its tenure, eventually made almost 600 recommendations, including treatment on demand for people who use IV drugs, anti-discrimination legislation, and an overhaul of the healthcare system, which they determined was not equipped to respond to the epidemic. President Reagan did not act on the commission’s recommendations before leaving office. In Watkins’ footsteps, the program featured interviews from people across the country who had experienced discrimination because of AIDS, activists who criticized the lack of research funding and stalled drug approval, and researchers working on HIV/AIDS. The final segment included an interview with Malcolm, a gay man dying of AIDS who reconnected with his Mormon family in the final months of his life. 

The third installment of *AIDS Quarterly* received backlash for “mistakes” in two different segments: one for its representation of people of color who had AIDS and another for a comment made by Jennings that emboldened homophobia, critics charged. The segment titled “A Question of Civil Rights” scrutinized “racially segregated” healthcare available for people with HIV and AIDS in Chicago. The segment looked at Howard Brown Memorial Clinic, a “state-of-the-art facility” that treated mostly white gay men and was located in a white neighborhood, in comparison to healthcare facilities available to Black and Hispanic people with AIDS in Chicago, including an outreach center with “no treatment rooms, a tiny staff, armed only with condoms and bleach for cleaning needles.” The segment briefly followed Claude Rhodes, founder of a drug abuse treatment center in the 1960s, who joined the University of Illinois Chicago Community Outreach Intervention Project and “was known to take up to half an hour just to walk one block, stopping to talk and pass out bleach and condoms.” Rhodes was shown walking down streets and into a “shooting gallery” to educate people on HIV/AIDS and provide condoms and bleach for disinfecting needles. Putting the comparison between healthcare facilities into context, the program informed viewers that Chicago returned $900,000 in funds from anti-AIDS grants that were not used in 1988. 

Another segment told the story of a woman who had contracted HIV from her husband, who was having an affair with a man, and included interviews with experts on resources for and education about women with AIDS. Jennings mentioned that many early signs of HIV for women, such as yeast infections and cervical cancer, were not on the government’s official list of symptoms, which made diagnosing HIV/AIDS in women difficult, skewed case numbers, and disqualified women from taking experimental drugs and receiving disability benefits. 

The episode received both negative and positive reactions. Larry Kessler, chairman of the AIDS Action Committee of Massachusetts, told the *Boston Globe*, “It pitted communities of color against gay whites. It showed blacks sharing needles in a slum, but no yuppies sharing needles in a loft. It suggested that at least some community-based clinics have gotten plenty of federal help, which is ludicrous. And it portrayed women with AIDS as innocent victims of uncaring men, which just about sent me through the ceiling.” Kessler was responding to Jennings’ statement that bisexual men “don’t always tell the full story to the women they’re involved with.” Eric Rosenthal, political director of the Human Rights Campaign, a gay and lesbian lobbying group, said the segments gave the impression “that gay men are out there spreading the disease to women—and then stealing treatment money from blacks and Hispanics. That’s outrageous. It loads bullets in the gun for anyone who’s inclined toward homophobia in the first place.” In another *Boston Globe* article, Richard Knox wrote that the episode was further evidence that *The AIDS Quarterly* was “simultaneously understated and urgent, broadly focused and yet powerfully human.” In addition to the segments on racially segregated healthcare and a woman with AIDS, this episode also included an interview with Dr. Mervyn Silverman, president of amfAR, a segment on legal rights of gay couples when one died of AIDS, and footage of a funeral for an ordained minister, who died of AIDS complications. At the funeral service, AIDS was not mentioned at the request of the family, and the minister’s body was buried in a “far corner of the cemetery.” 

*The AIDS Quarterly* provided the most comprehensive coverage by public broadcasting of HIV/AIDS and was the only regularly scheduled program dedicated to examining the epidemic. Like many AIDS programs, the Quarterly was not without controversy, but it made significant contributions to public knowledge. One public television staffer, when discussing how public television measures success, gave *The AIDS Quarterly* as an example of a program that was successful because it made an impact on people’s lives, saying that the series was “causing people to have an intimacy with their own families, and to talk about the disease that they have and they hadn’t even had the nerve to tell them about. I mean, that’s just, that’s a huge thing to have done, even to one person.”

*The AIDS Quarterly* ran from February 1989 to May 1990. Episodes of *The AIDS Quarterly* and its successor program, *The Health Quarterly*, which reported on issues of health in the U.S. and included an “AIDS Report” segment, are available to researchers on-site at the Library of Congress and GBH. 

***The AIDS Quarterly*, “The Education of Admiral Watkins” (WGBH, Boston, February 28, 1989).** 

> Provides an overview of the epidemic and interview with Admiral Watkins, chairman of President Reagan’s commission   on AIDS.

***The AIDS Quarterly*, “A Question of Civil Rights; AIDS and the Second Sex” (WGBH, Boston, September 27, 1989).**

> Explores how racially segregated healthcare in Chicago affects Black and Hispanic people’s access to HIV/AIDS information, prevention, and care. Also follows one woman living with AIDS.

***The AIDS Quarterly*, “Christmas at Starcross” (WGBH, Boston, December 19, 1989).**

> This special edition of *The AIDS Quarterly* follows the care of children with AIDS at Starcross Christmas Tree Farm in Northern California. 

***The AIDS Quarterly*, “The Trial of Compound Q; Money and Morals” (WGBH, Boston, January 31, 1990).**

> Examines the controversy surrounding the underground trials of Compound Q by Project Inform in San Francisco, in addition to the use of government funds for HIV/AIDS research and treatment. You can read more about Compound Q elsewhere in this exhibit.

***The AIDS Quarterly*, “Crisis in Texas; Prisoners of AIDS” (WGBH, Boston, May 23, 1990)**

> Analyzes the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the state of Texas and the spread of HIV inside prisons. 
 
***The Health Quarterly*, “My Job My Health; An Answer from Government” (WGBH, Boston, June 12, 1991).**

> A segment looks at HIV/AIDS in Atlanta, where hospitals, CDC researchers, and community organizations work to provide material support and factual information to prevent the spread of HIV and to destigmatize the disease. 

***The Health Quarterly*, “Oregon Experiment; The AIDS Report” (WGBH, Boston, September 24, 1991).**

> This episode’s AIDS Report includes an interview with Dr. David Rogers, co-chairman of President Bush’s National Commission on AIDS, which would publish its report the next day. The report criticized the government for not providing decisive leadership throughout the crisis. 	

***The Health Quarterly*, “The Politics; Reform within Reach; To Keep Kids Safe” (WGBH, Boston, May 8, 1992).**

> The AIDS Report examines HIV/AIDS and sex education in a Providence, Rhode Island, school to prevent the spread of HIV in teenagers. 

***The Health Quarterly*, “Return to the Delta; A Better Way to Help?; Gloria” (WGBH, Boston, December 30, 1992).**

> Includes a story about a young girl, Gloria, whose father has AIDS. 

### Selected Additional Programming

**[“Protect Yourself: Teaching Your Children About AIDS,” WTTW Journal (WTTW, Chicago), April 2, 1991](/catalog/cpb-aacip-526-wh2d796m92)**

“Protect Yourself” aimed to explore the issue of sex education for children through a live Q&A, educational segments, and three discussion panels. The content of sex education in schools was a highly debated topic, and this program included a variety of opinions and recommendations popular at the time, including abstinence-only education and safe sex education.  

**[Express, “Sweating It Out / All About Cleve” (KQED, San Francisco, CA, 1989)](catalog/cpb-aacip-55-ng4gm8242x?start=1063.00&end=1832)**

This episode of the KQED series *Express* includes a segment on Cleve Jones, gay rights activist and founder of the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt. The program covered Jones’s involvement in politics, activism, his HIV diagnosis, and the NAMES Project. The NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt requested submissions of quilt panels made in honor of people who died of AIDS-related causes. The quilt was displayed across the country beginning in 1987, when it was laid on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. At that time, the quilt was larger than a football field and was made up of 1,920 panels.

The AIDS Memorial Quilt currently includes over 50,000 panels. It is [now considered the largest community art project in the world and can be accessed in full online](https://www.aidsmemorial.org/quilt35).

**The Creative Mind, “Marlon Riggs” (KQED, San Francisco, June 19, 1991; June 26, 1991). Parts [One](/catalog/cpb-aacip_55-94vhjhqv) and [Two](/catalog/cpb-aacip-55-97xktjsp).** 

This episode of *The Creative Mind*, a KQED series featuring in-depth interviews with artists, includes a conversation with documentary film artist Marlon Riggs, who explored anti-Black racism and homophobia in his work. Riggs, a Black gay man, said, “I don’t constantly think of death, but I know that there will be a time, and for that reason, my work has been a way of not running from death or trying to undo death, which will come—I’m not afraid of that—but rather it’s living beyond death in a way that continues to move people, to show them that there is a reason for living, that humanity is something that can be—occasionally is—virtuous.” 
Riggs discussed several of his films, including the controversial Tongues Untied (1989), an experimental documentary about Black gay men and the intersection of racism and homophobia. Riggs’s interview on The Creative Mind was broadcast a month before POV, a PBS series showcasing films by independent filmmakers, planned to show Tongues Untied nationally. When asked about the “shock value” of Tongues Untied, Riggs responded that he intended the documentary to affirm the experiences of his audience, which was primarily Black gay men. (For more on Tongues Untied, see the section below on POV documentaries on AIDS.)

“AIDS: Ten Years Later” (KQED, San Francisco, September 1991), https://americanarchive.org/catalog/cpb-aacip_55-vq2s46hp40  
This program marked ten years since AIDS had been identified. By 1991, more than one million people in the U.S. were HIV positive, and 156,000 people had died. The program proclaims, “No longer affecting only gay white males, AIDS is spreading fastest among people of color and women.” The program discussed available HIV/AIDS treatments, FDA approval, the 1990 Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency Act, which was the largest federal funding approved for HIV/AIDS, and underfunded HIV/AIDS support services and staffing shortages. Many interviewees argued that the Ryan White Bill did not provide adequate funding to match the ever-growing number of people with AIDS, especially after the government began including gynecological symptoms in the definition of AIDS in 1991. Notable figures in this program include Dr. Mervyn Silverman, president of amfAR; Martin Delaney and Dr. Larry Waites of Project Inform; Dr. Sandra Hernandez, head of San Francisco Health Department AIDS Office; and Belinda Morse of Oakland’s Highland Hospital. The program also includes footage from ACT UP protests and covers ACT UP’s successes, like advising the government’s AIDS clinical trials group, pushing the government to include gynecological symptoms in the definition of AIDS, and accelerating the FDA drug approval process. 

“AIDS Week Update,” At Week’s End (KNME-TV, Albuquerque), December 4, 1992, https://americanarchive.org/catalog/cpb-aacip-191-89r22j27 

“AIDS Week Update” includes interviews with women with AIDS and examines the issue of sex education for preventing children from contracting HIV. A panel discussion features Martha Trolin, AIDS Educator working with New Mexico AIDS Services, and Lorraine Compa, RN, who worked with Healthcare for the Homeless and AIDS education for sex workers. 

“Women’s Educational Panel Promotional,” (KUNM, Albuquerque), June 17, 1994, https://americanarchive.org/catalog/cpb-aacip-207-80ht7fhs. 

This educational radio program aimed to teach women how to protect themselves from HIV/AIDS, which was “becoming more and more a heterosexual disease,” and promoted an educational event at a Presbyterian Church in Albuquerque. Information was provided by Jeannie Boyle, member of the Board of Directors of the New Mexico AIDS Services, who coordinated the panel.







 

## 1989-1991: Broadcasting ACT UP Direct Action
Although activism had been growing since the early 1980s, coverage of activist demonstrations increased significantly in 1989. The AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP), the most prominent AIDS activist group, was founded in 1987. ACT UP engaged in direct action, meaning that its protests creatively represented particular issues faced by people with AIDS and provided specific solutions to those problems. Direct action was also a strategy used during the Black Civil Rights Movement; similar to sit-ins, ACT UP’s die-ins involved the dramatized performance of a problem and demonstrated viable solutions. Sarah Schulman, a journalist and author who was involved in ACT UP during this period, wrote, 
In this moment of collision, the message must be impossible to avoid. It can be funny, but it has to be attention getting; it needs to be insightful. It has to be visually arresting; it cannot be a cliché. In that brief moment of stepping into the sight line of the powerful, shunned people use direct action to be understood. And they are making two things clear: (1) the specific content of their demand for change, and (2) that they will never stop fighting for their survival.
Commercial network television and public broadcasting coverage of their demonstrations played a significant role in communicating ACT UP’s messages and demands to the general public and to specific organizations. In 1990, The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour dedicated a segment to examining the success and strategies of ACT UP. The segment included interviews with ACT UP founder Larry Kramer, ACT UPer Jorge Cortinas, AIDS Quilt creator Cleve Jones, Dr. Mervyn Silverman of amfAR, and Dr. Paul Volderbing, among others. John Roszak of KQED credited ACT UP with achieving the following successes: lowering the price of HIV drug AZT twice; speeding the release of Ganciclovir, which was used to prevent blindness in AIDS patients; and the invention and adoption of parallel tracking, which allowed people with AIDS to be prescribed new treatments while they were being tested.  The segment included footage from several ACT UP demonstrations, such as Stop the Church, a demonstration at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York City, which will be discussed more fully below; a protest against travel bans on people with HIV at the Sixth International AIDS Conference; and a human blockade of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco. 
By broadcasting footage from direct action demonstrations, the programs included in this section aided the spread of ACT UP’s criticisms and demands on their own terms. In AIDS activist and author Vito Russo’s “Why We Fight” speech, he famously stated, “If I’m dying from anything, I’m dying from the sensationalism of newspapers and magazines and television shows, which are interested in me as a human interest story—only as long as I’m willing to be a helpless victim, but not if I’m fighting for my life.” ACT UP was consistently critical of media coverage of the epidemic, and their demonstrations were designed to use the news as a tool. Ann Northrop, journalist and activist, summed up the relationship of ACT UP to the media in Robert Hilferty’s controversial documentary Stop the Church: “We communicate through the media, not to the media.”  
Notable items in this section include Stop the Church: Issues and Outrage, a KCET program about the controversy surrounding PBS’s cancellation of Stop the Church; an AIDS Quarterly segment on the experimental drug Compound Q; and a MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour episode that was disrupted by ACT UP.


### Drug Approval
One of ACT UP’s main goals was to get treatments for HIV/AIDS approved efficiently and ethically without double-blind placebo trials and then made accessible to everyone who needed them. The FDA drug approval process was long and complicated, and ACT UP activists believed that the process was unnecessarily delaying the distribution of potentially effective treatments against HIV/AIDS. The FDA first approved AZT as a treatment for HIV/AIDS in 1987, but it was the only FDA-approved treatment on the market.
On October 11, 1988, ACT UP organized a demonstration at the FDA to demand the speedy approval of more HIV/AIDS treatments. Seize Control of the FDA was ACT UP’s first major protest, with 1,500 activists in attendance. Footage from Seize Control of the FDA was included in the first installment of The AIDS Quarterly. This protest successfully led to the development of accelerated drug approval processes and new treatment regulations by the FDA, described by FDA Commissioner Dr. Frank Young in a NewsHour interview. In a retrospective essay on the action, activist Douglas Crimp wrote,
If ‘drugs into bodies’ had been central to ACT UP from the beginning, the protest at the FDA represented both a culmination of our early efforts and a turning point in both recognition by the government of the seriousness and legitimacy of our demands and national awareness of the AIDS activist movement. This turning point occurred for two interrelated reasons: 1) the demonstrated knowledge by AIDS activists of every detail of the complex FDA drug approval process, and 2) a professionally designed campaign that prepared the media to convey our treatment issues to the public.

In 1990, ACT UP similarly demanded an increase in HIV/AIDS treatments and better representation of women and people of color in drug clinical trials at the National Institute of Health. In coverage from the MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour, activists can be seen wrapped in “red tape” at the Bethesda campus. 
While the FDA was slow to approve treatments, people with AIDS and community organizers searched for alternatives. Trichosanthin, or Compound Q, was a Chinese abortifacient and cancer drug believed to help treat HIV/AIDS. Compound Q was tested in San Francisco on AIDS patients without Institutional Review Board (IRB) or FDA approval by Project Inform, an advocacy group for people with HIV/AIDS. These patients were usually people with AIDS who responded poorly to FDA-approved treatments.
The underground trials of Compound Q were controversial because they skirted conventional regulations on drugs. WGBH’s AIDS Quarterly covered Compound Q in its Winter 1990 edition. The segment included interviews with Martin Delaney, AIDS activist and founder of Project Inform; Compound Q patients; Dr. Alan Levin, the immunologist who conducted the trials; and others. Project Inform was clear that Compound Q was not a miracle drug, but that it was worth trying. Dr. Levin, who became involved when he learned that people were taking Compound Q in unsupervised doses, told an interviewer, “Now, it’s not a simple treatment and it’s not a safe treatment. And the odds are very good someone’s going to die of this treatment. I mean, we’re not kidding ourselves, this is not just a magical panacea.”  The program also included footage of Dr. Levin and Delaney discussing whether or not to keep the trial going when patients continued to become sick. 
A 1991 episode of Minnesota Public Radio’s Midday explored the ethical debates around the approval of AIDS treatments. The program examined the process of peer review and the function of a review board, which are part of drug approval processes and typically considered standards of ethics. Dr. Levin stated, “I don’t need a committee to tell me what’s ethical…. I’ll do what I think is best for my patient with my patient knowing full well what I’m doing and why I’m doing it.” 
The programs in this section demonstrated the desperation of activists and people with AIDS to get access to effective treatments. By the time the FDA approved AZT, more than 25,000 people had died of AIDS. ACT UP’s pressure on the FDA resulted in the shortening of the drug approval process by two years.  

### Stop the Church

Perhaps ACT UP’s most well-known demonstration, Stop the Church was a controversial protest against the Catholic Church and, more specifically, Cardinal John O’Connor, Archbishop of New York. In the 1980s, Cardinal O’Connor condemned the use of condoms to prevent HIV transmission, advocated against sex education and condom distribution in public schools, criticized needle exchange programs, and opposed abortion rights. Gay activists believed that O’Connor’s public statements urging parents and others to take action against these public health efforts contributed directly to the rising number of AIDS-related deaths. 
On December 10, 1989, more than 5,000 people participated in an ACT UP and Women’s Health Action and Mobilization (WHAM!) protest at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York City. The protest, which took place while Cardinal O’Connor offered mass, consisted of a rally outside the cathedral and a die-in inside. Protestors disrupted the service by chanting “Stop killing us” and laid their bodies on the floor between pews, performing their own deaths, their friends’ deaths, and the deaths of other people with AIDS.

Writer and activist Robert Hilferty’s footage from the planning of the protest offers an intimate look into the functioning of ACT UP. Hilferty, who became involved in ACT UP in 1987, used a Hi-8 camera to record the planning and execution of the protest. The Hi-8 was a new, handheld camera available in 1989 that recorded onto 8mm video tapes, and its portability allowed Hilferty to document activists up-close and in the moment.  Hilferty filmed as members debated the ethics of disrupting a church service, and both Catholics and non-Catholics involved in the action aired their criticisms of O’Connor and the Catholic Church at an organizing meeting. Using footage from ACT UP meetings and from the protest itself, Hilferty created a documentary called Stop the Church. 
Hilferty’s film presented ACT UP in an entirely new way. ACT UP carefully strategized their television appearances, and this film documented an insider’s view, showing activists Ann Northrop, Larry Kramer, Michael Petrellis, and David Robinson, among many others, planning the demonstration. Stop the Church won the award for best documentary at the Ann Arbor Film Festival and was shown at the Whitney Museum of American Art. 
PBS picked up Stop the Church for its documentary series POV, but didn’t flag it as controversial due to a preoccupation surrounding their airing of Marlon Riggs’s Tongues Untied, which more than 100 PBS stations refused to air.  One month after Tongues Untied was broadcast, PBS issued a statement declaring that it would not broadcast Stop the Church nationally because “its pervasive tone of ridicule overwhelms its critique of policy. In addition, it does not meet PBS’s standards for quality.” POV executive producer Marc Weiss would later claim that the issue was not one of content, but of timing. 
The cancellation of Stop the Church only fueled controversy. Scholar B. J. Bullert recorded more than sixty newspaper articles written about the cancellation within the first week of its announcement. Susan Dowling of WGBH in Boston said that by being overprotective of member stations, PBS was “perpetuating protection of content, and by extension, homophobia. Whatever the programmers’ claims, they have a damaging effect.” Although Stop the Church was removed from POV, local public television stations could still broadcast the documentary. KCET in Los Angeles designed a program around the documentary and controversy, and the station faced mixed reactions. Rev. Gregory Coiro from the public affairs office of the Los Angeles Catholic Archdiocese told Bullert, “We felt this was a very bigoted piece, and that it was anti-Catholic and had no place on television.” Director Robert Hilferty disagreed with accusations of “Catholic bashing” against the documentary and said, “It is a linguistic travesty to equate my political critique of Cardinal O’Connor with the fists, knives, and bats of gay bashers.” Hilferty here referred to “gay bashing,” or homophobic assaults against gay people, which had increased with the onset of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.  

KCET’s program Stop the Church: Issues and Outrage was designed to fairly present the documentary and controversy. The program opened with a statement intended to address critics head-on. KCET President William Kobin prefaced the showing of the documentary by firmly stating,
One of the mandates of a public television station is to explore significant issues of controversy and present a wide diversity of opinion and programming, including opinions which may not be popular and material which may not be to everyone’s taste. Stop the Church is such a film, and we believe that you and every citizen should have the opportunity to see the film, hear the issues discussed, and make up your own mind.
Following the documentary, the program aired a taped press conference from Cardinal Roger Mahony, Archbishop of Los Angeles, who condemned the KCET program and said that KCET leadership “has abdicated its role of responsible community leadership by agreeing to air the blatantly anti-Catholic film Stop the Church.” Then host Jeffrey Kaye moderated a debate panel, which included Paul Freese from the Catholic League, Jesuit priest Father William Wood, Lee Klosinski of AIDS Project LA, and Rev. Stephen Pieters of Metro Community Churches. 
The panel discussion represented many responses to the documentary and KCET’s decision to air it. The panelists debated the ethics of ACT UP’s tactics, the use of condoms to prevent HIV transmission, the Church’s influence on public policy, and safe sex education. On the effectiveness of ACT UP militancy, Pieters said, “I feel an urgency as a person with AIDS. I may not have a lot of time left. I want results now. And if it hadn’t been for ACT UP, I’m not sure that we would have the AZT that is keeping us alive longer. I’m not sure that we would have the DDI [Didanosine] that is helping us stay alive longer.” 

This panel was followed by a press conference that earlier had been given by William Kobin on KCET’s decision to broadcast the program, then another panel discussion with Tracy Westen, Professor of Media Law at the University of Southern California Annenberg School of Communications, and Van Gordon Sauter, former president of CBS News. Sauter called the documentary a “tantrum” and a “dreary film.” Westen, on the other hand, argued, “It is a legitimate, important point of view that needs articulation.”  
KCET was both praised and criticized for the program. George Weigel, president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center, claimed that the documentary was “an attack on the American democratic experiment because it is an attempt to stop the conversation—the ongoing conversation about the ordering of our lives, loves and loyalties that is the democratic process at its most basic level.” In support of the decision, viewers donated a total of around $65,000, and one viewer walked into the station with a $500 check. After KCET’s program aired, other local public broadcasting stations decided to air the documentary, including KQED in San Francisco, WGBH in Boston, North Carolina Public Television, Wisconsin Public Television, and WNET-TV in New York.   


### The Day of Desperation 
On January 22, 1991, ACT UP staged the Day of Desperation, a series of protests that aimed to bring attention to the desperation of people with AIDS. ACT UP members argued that media attention about the Gulf War, which began on January 16, 1991, was “accompanied by manufactured anti-Arab sentiment and generalized fear” and was “a monumental distraction from the real problems of the AIDS crisis, a huge waste of money, and an exploitative use of racism to justify a war.”  As part of the Day of Desperation, several groups of ACT UPers successfully disrupted two news programs: the CBS Evening News and The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour. On CBS, a protestor was shown chanting “Fight AIDS, not Arabs” before the network cut to a commercial. 
Five protestors entered the NewsHour’s WNET studio in New York in the middle of the telecast, which focused on the Gulf War. At that time, co-anchor Robert MacNeil was off-camera, so the protest was not broadcast. Instead, co-anchor Jim Lehrer in the NewsHour’s WETA studio in Washington prolonged his interview and let viewers know that demonstrators had infiltrated the New York studio. Several ACT UPers handcuffed themselves to MacNeil’s desk. In an interview for the ACT UP Oral History Project, Ann Northrop, who was involved in the CBS disruption, said that MacNeil talked to the activists for a while before they were removed by police. After they were removed, MacNeil went back on air and explained the disruption: 
It was a group of people who called themselves ‘non-violent demonstrators’ from the ACT UP AIDS group, who complain that we and the media are spending too much time and attention on the war in the Middle East, which they say will never kill as many people as are dying of AIDS. And I told them that this program has spent a lot of time on the AIDS matter and will continue to be interested in it, and we will be covering it more in the future.
Despite their failure to appear onscreen, the protestors successfully communicated their message through The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour. The Day of Desperation disruptions also were covered by the New York Times. 

