# About the AAPB

![Eleanor Roosevelt](/page-banners/banner8.jpg)

>
Public television has been responsible for the production, broadcast, and
dissemination of some of the most important programs which in aggregate form
the richest audiovisual source of cultural history in the United States. . . .
[I]t is still not easy to overstate the immense cultural value of this unique
audiovisual legacy, whose loss would symbolize one of the great conflagrations
of our age, tantamount to the burning of Alexandria’s library in the age of
antiquity.
<footer>Television and Video Preservation (1997), a Library of Congress
report</footer>

The Library of Congress and WGBH in Boston have embarked on a project to
preserve for posterity the most significant public television and radio
programs of the past 60 years: The American Archive of Public Broadcasting. The
American people have made a huge investment in public radio and television over
many decades, calculated at more than $10 billion. The American Archive will
ensure that this rich source for American political, social, and cultural
history and creativity will be saved and made available once again to future
generations.

>
Public broadcasting has managed to establish itself as a national treasure. . .
. Millions now watch and hear, applaud, and criticize a unique public
institution which daily enters their homes with programs that inform, engage,
enlighten, and delight.
<footer>A Public Trust: The Report of the Carnegie Commission on the Future of
Public Broadcasting (1979)</footer>


In August 2013, the Library and WGBH received a grant from the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting to engage in the first phase of a long-term project to
preserve public media. During this first phase, scheduled to end in September 2016,
the Library and WGBH are overseeing the digitization of approximately 40,000
hours of programs selected by more than 100 public broadcasting stations
throughout the nation. Dating from the 1940s to the 21st century and emanating
from all regions of the nation, these programs will be available to scholars,
researchers, educators, students, and the general public at the Library’s
audiovisual research centers and at WGBH.

>
The broad mission of public broadcasting has been to help promote civil
discussion, take creative risks, serve the underserved, and supply educational
programming. In economic terms, the goal has been to serve the public with
media content that is not sufficiently profitable for commercial
broadcasters.
<footer>The Information Needs of Communities (FCC Report, July 2011)</footer>


During the initial phase, the American Archive has launched a website to give
the public online access to thousands of hours of programming – as much
material as legally possible to include. More than 7,000 historic public radio and television programs
are now available for streaming and more content will be added periodically. In addition, the website provides
data records for approximately 2.5 million items inventoried by public
broadcasting stations for this project.

>
I am very excited and supportive of the proposed “American Archive” project.
Because public radio and television stations have such a rich tradition of
documenting our national story, it is natural to want to harness the power of
digital technology and telecommunications to preserve public broadcasting’s
audio, film, and video history, and to make it available to the American
people.  This is a project that is consistent with public broadcasting’s core
mission.
<footer>Ed Markey, Member of Congress (now Senator) (February 7, 2007)</footer>


The collection of 40,000 hours contains thousands of high quality programs that
have had national impact. The vast majority of this initial American Archive
content, however, consists of regional and local programs that document
American communities during the last half of the twentieth century and the
first decade of the twenty-first. This extraordinary collection includes local
news and public affairs programs, local history productions that document the
heritage of local communities, and programs dealing with education,
environmental issues, music, art, literature, dance, poetry, religion, and even
filmmaking on a local level.

>
In a state as vast as Alaska, where nearly 75 percent of our communities are
off the road system and served by stations critically dependent on federal
funding, public broadcasting plays an essential role in the lives of many of
our residents. For many of these small communities, commercial broadcasting is
out of the picture and public broadcasting is often times the only viable
option for sharing and relaying information. From up to date local and national
news to life-saving weather reports, these are services my constituents and
rural Americans across the country depend on each and every day.
<footer>Don Young, Member of Congress (R-AK)</footer>


For scholars and educators, this collection is of critical importance. Writing
about public broadcasting programs produced during the turbulent decade of the
1960s, a historian of the period has stated:

>
These programs are rich and promising in so many areas: Jazz history; civil
rights history; the history of the war in Vietnam as debated and experienced by
famous and ordinary people; the urban crisis and the development of urban
minority political power; the programs of Lyndon Johnson’s War on Poverty and
the hidden history of battles over social welfare and rights…. In discussions
with Library of Congress staff about the American Archive project, I learned
about tantalizing programming that critically evaluated the role that
television and journalism played in shaping public perception.
<footer>Thomas F. Jackson, University of North Carolina, Greensboro</footer>


The Library is pleased and honored to collaborate with WGBH, acclaimed
universally as a long-time leader in media production, media management,
preservation, and rights management issues. The Library will house these
treasures in its Packard Campus for Audio Visual Conservation, the state of the
art preservation facility in Culpeper, Virginia, that was built for the Library
through the support and generosity of David Woodley Packard and his Packard
Humanities Institute. The collection of public broadcasting materials will be
preserved and made accessible to the school child as well as the scholar.  And
the extraordinary multimedia treasures from the Library of Congress collections
will be significantly enhanced in this important way.

>
This material will allow historians, writers, reporters, and just simply
interested individuals to experience a community's history, national events,
and social issues as they were chronicled by the people of the community.  It
will provide an authentic and unique window into the past for citizens of the
future.
<footer>Bruce Ramer, Member, CPB Board of Directors</footer>


In the future, the American Archive plans to expand by targeting important
collections of materials from stations and archives that were not included in
the initial phase. It is of great importance for the Library of Congress to
digitize and add to the archive the unparalleled collection of public
broadcasting programming that the Library has safely stored in its own vaults
for more than 40 years.

>
Unlike history books, which are widely available in libraries and on the
Internet, the great majority of our audio, film and video history sits in
collections that are locked away and unavailable to the American public, and
could eventually be lost forever. However, unique opportunities exist to use
these archives to expand Public Television’s educational mission. Educators and
students could pick and choose content from which to create unique, digital
learning materials capable of being presented in a variety of formats.
Historians, journalists and documentary filmmakers could take advantage of the
archive’s thousands of hours of raw footage for research purposes or for
creating new educational works. Most importantly, digitizing these vast
archives will allow the public to reap the benefits of its years of investment
in public broadcasting.
<footer>John Lawson, President, Association of Public Television
Stations</footer>


As a public broadcaster, WGBH brings extensive knowledge of the public media
system and an understanding of the core issues facing both TV and radio
stations to the table. WGBH has long been positioned as a leader in the areas
of media management, preservation and copyright issues. WGBH has demonstrated
its strengths in these areas with the Open Vault website and other websites
maintained and developed by WGBH.

>
The American Archive will ensure that the wealth of public broadcasting
programming that Americans have paid for does not sit locked away,
deteriorating, on aging tape and film. This rich programming represents the
most comprehensive chronicle of our nation’s history, our people, our culture
and our democracy. It has enormous continuing value to current and future
generations and must not be left to fade away.
<footer>Jon Abbott, President and CEO of WGBH Boston</footer>


“Acquire, preserve, and provide access to a universal collection of knowledge
and the record of America’s creativity” is a key strategic goal of the Library
of Congress. Adopting the American Archive project advances the mission of the
Library of Congress, as America’s national library, to preserve our nation’s
broadcast history for future generations and further the progress of knowledge
and creativity for the benefit of the American people. The Library’s
experience, expertise, and national leadership in preserving and making
publicly accessible digitally reformatted audiovisual materials will ensure
that future operations of the American Archive are performed according to
highest standards and best practices.
WGBH and the Library believe that the legacy of American public broadcasting
must be preserved for future generations. We look forward to maintaining a
central role in keeping, organizing and providing access to the cultural
treasures created by the public media system to enhance education and knowledge
of the American public.
