# KNBA-FM

## Short name

Koahnic Broadcast Corporation

## State

Alaska

## City

Anchorage

## Logo

koahnic_logo.png

## Url

http://knba.org/

## History

Koahnic Broadcast Corporation was created as a non-profit media corporation
in 1992 by Alaska Native leaders to preserve culture and languages, combat widespread
misconceptions and prejudices against Alaska Natives, and create cross-cultural
bridges. Since our creation, Koahnic Broadcast Corporation has been a national
leader in Native American radio broadcasting, media production, and training.


Koahnic operates KNBA 90.3 FM in Anchorage, Alaska, the first urban Native radio
station, which signed on in October 1996. KNBA broadcasts news, public affairs
and contemporary music to Anchorage and surrounding areas, and streams its signal
online. KNBA also produces special programming, such as annual broadcast coverage
of the Alaska Federation of Natives Convention that is carried by stations across
the state.

Koahnic is the nation’s primary producer and distributor of Native
public radio programming. Koahnic’s award-winning national radio programs include:
Native America Calling, a weekday one-hour live moderated call-in program; National
Native News, a weekday 5-minute news feature that has been recognized repeatedly
by the Native American Journalists Association; and Earthsongs, a dynamic weekly
feature spotlighting contemporary Native music. 

Starting in 2006, Koahnic has
operated Native Voice One (NV1), the national Native radio program distribution
service. Through NV1 distribution, Native radio programs reach the majority of
the Alaska Native population and the American Indian reservation audience through
carriage by most of the country’s 55 Native-owned stations. NV1 programs are also
heard on public radio stations serving urban areas including Atlanta, Orlando,
Phoenix, and Sacramento, as well as smaller cities like Duluth, Minnesota; Bloomington,
Indiana; Salt Lake City, Utah; and Asheville, North Carolina. 

NV1 station affiliation
includes 400 public radio stations and repeaters, including 50 Native stations
in rural communities. Many more listeners access the NV1 and KNBA webstreams on
mobile devices to hear these shows that are engaging Native America.


## Productions

National Native News (NNN) - a daily five-minute newscast, has
been the leading daily news service focused on Native issues for 27 years. NNN
is the only news program of this kind produced and anchored entirely by a Native
staff.  Broadcast Monday through Friday on more than 300 U.S. and Canadian radio
stations and their translators, NNN is anchored and produced by Antonia Gonzales
(Navajo), with reporters contributing stories from across the country.

Native
America Calling (NAC) - broadcast live nationwide, is an intense and stimulating
one-hour call-in radio talk show. NAC is produced by Koahnic five days a week
and broadcast via NV1 to stations across the country. There is no other national
forum in any medium for this kind of exchange on Native issues. Native and non-Native
leaders in government, business and the arts recognize this and take advantage
of the opportunity to participate in NAC’s talking circle. Both members of rural
and reservation Native communities and Native people listening from urban areas
may call in and speak directly to people closest to Native issues. Since 1995
NAC has provided links between Native and non-Native people, enabling callers
to speak out on a variety of subjects that educate and enlighten their communities
and other public radio audiences. Hosted by Tara Gatewood (Isleta), the program
is broadcast on nearly 100 Native and public radio stations and translators.

Earthsongs
- a weekly public radio program produced in Alaska and distributed nationally
via NV1. Since 1999, Earthsongs has been the primary showcase for contemporary
Native American and Indigenous music and culture. Hosted and produced by Alexis
Sallee (Iñupiaq and Mexican-American), the hour-long program is carried by nearly
100 public radio stations across 16 states, and streamed online. Each hour of
Earthsongs features exclusive artist interviews, and a carefully curated mix of
music by both emerging and established Native musicians.  

The Alaska Federation
of Natives (AFN) Convention is the largest representative annual gathering in
the United States of any Native peoples. Each year, the AFN Convention draws between
4,000–5,000 attendees. Policy guidelines and advocacy statements are set by the
dozens of resolutions passed by voting delegates at the Convention. Since 1996,
KNBA has produced and broadcast statewide, gavel-to-gavel coverage of this important
three-day event. The broadcasts are aired on KNBA, streamed online, and made available
to stations across the state. In the last decade, KNBA has added additional coverage
from the event, including daily five-minute newscasts both in English and in Native
languages including Iñupiaq, Athabascan, Tlingit and Yup’ik, and a special hour-long
discussion program, “Alaska’s Native Voice.” KNBA’s live, statewide broadcasts
from the AFN Convention provide an important service to Alaskans, enabling listeners
to stay in touch with important discussions and debates. 

2010 Inuit Nipaat Radio
- Koahnic Broadcast Corporation was the invited United States media provider for
the 2010 General Assembly of the Inuit Circumpolar Council (ICC) in Nuuk, Greenland.
“Nipaat” is a Greenlandic and Iñupiaq word meaning “Sound,” and the broadcast’s
title was chosen to reflect the concept that this special coverage had a distinct
“Inuit Sound” or “Inuit Voice” to speak to Native people throughout the circumpolar
region. Koahnic provided context, detail and analysis throughout the four-day
proceedings with daily broadcasts. As part of the broadcasts, Koahnic produced
five-minute recaps of each day's proceedings in English, Iñupiaq, Yup'ik and Greenlandic.
The program was aired not only by KNBA in Anchorage, but by rural stations serving
communities throughout Alaska including in Dillingham, Nome, Bethel, Chevak, Kotzebue,
Barrow and Sand Point.

