# KCAW-FM (Raven Radio Foundation, Inc.)

## Short name

KCAW

## State

Alaska

## City

Sitka

## Logo

kcaw_logo.png

## Url

http://www.kcaw.org/

## History

KCAW-FM is a non-commercial, community radio station owned and operated
by the Raven Radio Foundation, Inc. of Sitka, Alaska. Since signing on the air
March 6th, 1982, KCAW has been broadcasting a diverse and vibrant program schedule
to the Southeast Alaskan communities of Sitka, Angoon, Elfin Cove, Kake, Pelican,
Port Alexander, Tenakee Springs, Yakutat, as well as a wide expanse of the coastal
fishing grounds.

KCAW provides essential information services such as Emergency
Alert System and AMBER announcements; severe weather warnings and local, regional,
state, national and international news as well as entertainment programming to
a combined listening population of 11,748. The residents of these coastal communities
rely on KCAW for instantaneous information regarding tsunami warnings and storm
threats.

Volunteer participation and community involvement have always been key
components of our mission. Raven Radio currently has more than 1200 members and
100 active volunteers. In the past 20 years, KCAW has trained more than 700 on-air
volunteers, and in the past week, more than 50 volunteers have been on the air.
KCAW has built a solid reputation for training producers and several former staff
and volunteers are now award winning national producers.


## Productions

One of the productions Raven Radio is most proud of is the original radio series "Haven Bay". Scores of writers, actors, musicians and technicians worked for several years to create four seasons featuring dozens of five minute modules following the adventures of the unique individuals in this remote fictional(?) Alaskan town.
