# KUCB (Unalaska Community Broadcasting/KIAL)

## Short name

KUCB

## State

Alaska

## City

Unalaska

## Logo

kucb_logo.png

## Url

http://kucb.org/

## History

Unalaska Community Broadcasting is a non-profit organization that
has served Unalaska since 1984. We began as a local access television station
and have since developed into a provider of television, radio, a website, and
various social media outlets.  We were incorporated in 1984 as a 501(c)3 charitable
organization known at the time as Unalaska Community Television. UCTV broadcast
a low-power television signal to the community of Unalaska over channel 8.  Channel
8 Television has been on the air continuously since then. 

Our broadcast service
area is the community of Unalaska and the Port of Dutch Harbor, the hub of the
Aleutian Islands. Since UCB opened its doors in the 1980s, Unalaska has grown
to become the 11th largest community in the state, and Dutch Harbor is one of
the top fishing ports in the nation.  Residents turn to our organization for news
and information from a trusted local source.  We are the only media organization
based in our region, and these days our reach goes far beyond our island.   We
are often called upon by state and national news organizations to cover news or
provide photos and video from the Aleutian Islands, Pribilof Islands, and Alaska
Peninsula.  Our website gets thousands of hits a week from individuals all over
the world interested in Western Alaska news and events.


## Productions

Channel 8 remains a vibrant part of our organization and we document
nearly every cultural event that takes place in Unalaska.  Staff collaborates
with volunteers to create about 10 hours per week of local programming.  Highlights
include:

Flash News - A weekly news program featuring a week’s worth of stories
from the KUCB newsroom.

Flash Unalaska - A talk show where volunteers review
community events from the prior week and give a preview of upcoming events.  Flash
Unalaska has been on the air since at least 1988.

City Council Coverage

Frequent
cooking shows and game shows, when participants are available.

