# WJCT-FM

## Short name

WJCT

## State

Florida

## City

Jacksonville

## Logo

wjct_logo.png

## Url

http://www.wjct.org/

## History

WJCT went on the air on September 10, 1958, broadcasting a report
on educational television from Florida Governor Leroy Collins. Its broadcast reached
Live Oak, St. Augustine, Palatka, and Folkston, Georgia. WJCT became Florida’s
second educational television station, following Miami, and preceding Gainesville’s
WUFT and Tampa’s WEDU by several weeks. WJCT filled its first month with “national
educational television” programs from PBS’ predecessor, NET.

On April 10, 1972,
WJCT added its second media platform, meeting the community’s needs for fine arts
and music. WJCT-FM went on the air as “Stereo 90,” broadcasting music, news and
public affairs programming approximately 18 hours a day. Eighteen months later,
in October 1973, Channel 7 and Stereo 90 presented their first simulcast, broadcasting
a concert by the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra.

In May of 2014, the launch
of the Digital Convergence Alliance Network Operations Center (DCA-NOC) marked
the culmination of work begun four years prior by WJCT Public Broadcasting. WJCT
spearheaded a major initiative, laying the foundation for a collaborative venture
of 11 public television stations that would not only foster economies of scale
but create opportunities to better serve their respective communities, the first
of which is the DCA-NOC. A grant from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
(CPB) enabled WJCT and community partners to develop a technical plan for the
creation of a centralized master control operation.

Throughout its 56-year history,
the First Coast community has been a vital component of WJCT’s success, providing
individual and corporate support, contributing countless hours of volunteer work,
serving on boards, partnering in productions, events and services. With continuing
community support, WJCT stands poised to serve the First Coast community for another
50 years, and more, using its unique assets as a resource for citizens to come
together to celebrate human diversity, experience lifelong learning, and actively
engage in matters of civic importance, all to improve the quality of our lives
and our community.


## Productions

First Coast Connect - Hosted by Melissa Ross, this one-hour call-in
program features local newsmakers, civic and community leaders, arts, activities
and more, along with spot news features and a weekly roundtable of local journalists.
Launched in August 2009, First Coast Connect recently celebrated its 5th anniversary.


First Coast Forum - A quarterly series of interactive community forums designed
to address critical challenges facing Florida’s First Coast and to engage the
community in resolving them. Each program brings First Coast business and community
leaders together for discussion, and gives community members an opportunity to
weigh in. Launched in July 2001, the quarterly forums broadcast live on TV and
radio. 

Hometown - Discover the stories of the people, places and events that
are unique to the Northeast Florida and Southeast Georgia area.  Hometown, produced
locally by WJCT Public Broadcasting, is [available OnDemand](http://www.wjct.tv/programs/).

