# WFYI-FM

## Short name

WFYI

## State

Indiana

## City

Indianapolis

## Logo

wfyi\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.wfyi.org/

## About

Known for quality programming throughout Central Indiana, WFYI Public
Media provides more than just the standard radio and television services. WFYI
has been involved as a community leader and partner in education, health, public
affairs, and the arts since 1970. We serve as a public forum where people are
encouraged to discuss and debate issues important to the local community. Our
award-winning documentaries and public affairs programs have addressed many relevant
topics ‒ including financial literacy, healthcare, workforce development and environmental
affairs. This broadcast schedule combines with local community outreach programs
to focus on developing successful solutions to local issues.

Forty-three years
ago WFYI Public Media was formed after many local residents in Central Indiana
voiced the need to create the state’s first educational television system. A local
community leader, Ardath Y. Burkhart, passionately led a small grass-roots campaign
to create a local educational television station. This group became affectionately
known as "Ardath's Army" and quickly gained community support by traveling door-to-door
across Indianapolis and its six surrounding counties. The volunteers pushed the
station into existence in just a few short weeks by raising enough money to cover
a full year of operating expenses. The station first signed on the air with a
no-frills staff of nine employees, three black-and-white television cameras, and
a signal that reached just beyond downtown Indianapolis. WFYI was the city's first
UHF television signal and the only channel to provide commercial-free programming
‒ a novel idea, even 40 years ago.

Now, more than 80 professionals work hard
at WFYI Public Media to make it Indiana’s chief PBS and NPR member station and
one of Central Indiana’s leading not-for-profits. The WFYI headquarters is a state-of-the-art
facility conveniently situated at 1630 N. Meridian St. in Indianapolis. The WFYI
location is one of Indianapolis' premier media hubs and centers for civic engagement.

As
WFYI Public Media looks towards the future, it will continue to focus on expanding
its local production capacity; enhancing its community services to both mainstream
and underserved audiences; and building on its proven track record of delivering
first-rate local, national and international news coverage.


## Productions

Across Indiana – for 20 seasons, WFYI correspondents traveled
the state to explore the passions, eccentricities and history of the residents
of the Hoosier state. 

The Natural Heritage of Indiana – Three part documentary
series shot over a two-year period revealing Indiana’s natural wonders in spectacular
detail. 

Fleeced: Speaking Out Against Senior Financial Abuse – A documentary
revealing the extent of fraud. 

Indiana Expeditions - One of the state’s most
honored and respected teachers on a journey to discover how real science impacts
our lives every day. 

CBC - Communities Building Community with former Indiana
First Lady Judy O’Bannon showcased the extraordinary ways in which Indiana residents
are working together to improve the quality of life in their communities.

