# WNYC-FM

## Short name

WNYC

## State

New York

## City

New York

## Logo

wnyc\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.wnyc.org/

## About

New York Public Radio is home to three of the country’s leading public
radio stations – WNYC FM, WNYC AM and WQXR FM – as well as New Jersey Public Radio
and The Jerome L. Greene Performance Space. WNYC is a major producer of original
content for public radio nationwide (Radiolab, Here's the Thing, On the Media,
Studio360). WQXR is New York City’s only all-classical music station. New Jersey
Public Radio covers the issues that matter in the garden state and extends New
York Public Radio’s news, talk and cultural programming deeper into New Jersey.
The Greene Space is a street-front broadcast studio and live venue where audiences
can experience our programming in person and online. New York Public Radio’s online
platforms include wnyc.org, wqxr.org, njpublicradio.org and thegreenespace.org.
WNYC - the largest station at NYPR - was one of the earliest municipally owned
radio stations in the country. The first day of broadcast was July 8th, 1924 and
the station was owned by the City of New York until 1997.


## Productions

WNYC's Masterwork Hour (1929) was radio's first program of recorded
classical music

Radio's first quiz program was on WNYC, The Brooklyn Daily Eagle's
Current Events Bee (1926-?), hosted by H. V. Kaltenborn

Oscar Brand holds the
world record for "longest-running radio programme by the same host", WNYC's
Folksong Festival (Dec. 1945- )

First radio station in the US to announce the
Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, December 7, 1941

WNYC has won 14 Peabody Awards

