# WYSO-FM (WYSO Public Radio)

## Short name

WYSO

## State

Ohio

## City

Yellow Springs

## Logo

wyso\_logo.png

## Url

http://wyso.org/

## History

WYSO Public Radio is owned and operated by Antioch College in Yellow
Springs, Ohio.  It began broadcasting in 1958 with 19 watts of power.  The student
founders promised programs “of a nature not generally available,” saying, “this
will be a community radio station.” They kept their promise.

Over the next three
decades, they conducted audio training, collected audio, and made programs covering
public affairs, international issues, local cultural and political events, lectures,
poetry readings, concerts, radio dramas and children shows. There was an outpouring
of programs.  WYSO blossomed.

Throughout the years WYSO programming has been
an energetic mix of music and news, both local and national.  

Today WYSO broadcasts
with 50,000 watts of power and distributes local and national programs from NPR
and other sources on multiple platforms.  We are no longer a student station,
but Antioch College students and community members are still involved.  Alongside
a staff of twelve, more than twenty weekly volunteers make radio every day.  In
2009, we revived community training programs and re-established the legacy of
wide-ranging recordings by community members.  They contribute award-winning feature
stories, public affairs programs, oral history interviews, and diverse music programs.


CPB’s ombudsman has called WYSO “the little station that could.”  We draw strength
from our deep engagement with our listeners through concerts, “Listening Parties,”
open houses and radio production training. Our staff and our community producers
create programming that reflects the diversity of our listening area in southwest
Ohio.  

The WYSO Digital Audio Archives reflects our history as we continue the
tradition of community involvement. 


## Productions

Since its beginning WYSO programming has included local news, public affairs, 
and a variety of music programs. Our archive collection is especially rich in 
civil rights and social justice issues.  Much of this programming was produced 
by students and community volunteers. As part of Antioch College, WYSO was 
present to record many of the musicians, writers, and public figures who 
visited and spoke on campus, most notably Dr. Martin Luther King’s 1965 
commencement address.

Today WYSO continues to produce local news and public affairs and a wealth of 
music programming created by a mix of staff and community producers.  

