# WYSU 88.5 FM

## Short name

WYSU

## State

Ohio

## City

Youngstown

## Logo

wysu\_logo.png

## Url

http://wysu.org/

## About

In 1969, just two years after the proposal was first made for a fine
arts radio station in Youngstown, Ohio, with the hard work of Don Elser, first
director Steve Grcevich, and Youngstown State University president Albert Pugsley,
WYSU-FM signed on the air at 88.5 MHZ, licensed to Youngstown State University.
The date was October 23, and the time was 10:00 am, with program host Bill Foster
introducing Richard Strauss’ Also sprach Zarathustra.  The station began by broadcasting
12 hours daily from its studios in the former Valley Park Motel on Wick Avenue,
and served Youngstown State University and the Mahoning Valley community.  WYSU-FM
is a charter member of National Public Radio. Some of the first programs to air
were NPR’s All Things Considered, WYSU’s Folk Festival with Charles Darling, and
the syndicated program Adventures in Good Music with Karl Haas.  

With a small
staff, WYSU made great strides over the next decades, becoming part of the first
radio network using satellite-delivered programs in 1971, moving to new studios
in 1976, and expanding to a 24-hour broadcast day in 1980.  Also in 1980, WYSU
held its first on-air pledge drive, a practice that continues twice yearly, and
remains a major source of funding for the station.  

Under the guidance of director
Robert Peterson in the 1980s and 1990s, the station began airing Morning Edition
and operating a new 50,000 watt transmitter.  The addition of translators in nearby
Ashtabula, Ohio and New Wilmington, Pennsylvania expanded WYSU’s coverage.  In
1996, state of the art digital editing equipment was installed, and overnight
programs became automated.

In the late 1990s, WYSU collaborated with the McDonough
Museum of Contemporary Art at YSU in launching the first Mad About the Arts event
– a celebration of great art, food, music and dance.  The event is now in its
20th successful year of raising funds to support both organizations.  In 2000,
classical music host Barbara Krauss planned the first station-sponsored European
tour to Great Britain.  The tours have since taken groups of WYSU travelers all
over the world. 

Gary Sexton, WYSU’s current director of broadcasting, took the
position in 2000.  Under his direction, a WYSU website (wysu.org) was established,
as well as streaming audio. By 2004, digital equipment was installed in the broadcast
studios.  WYSU began broadcasting in HD in 2007, adding an all classical HD channel
a year later.  In tandem with these advances, the station continues to produce
music and community affairs programs with local hosts and guests.  Fund drives
have continued to be successful and the staff and supporting members remain committed
to WYSU’s mission as a public radio station:  to be the community’s leading source
for trusted, in-depth news, engaging conversation, and music that stimulates the
mind and spirit.


## Productions

Looking Out - This round-table discussion is a platform for community
leaders to address national and global issues from often unexplored angles. Hosted
by Dr. George McCloud the half-hour program covers many topics ranging from the
economy to foreign policy, and ecology to education.

Lincoln Avenue - Hosted
by Dr. Sherry Linkon, Lincoln Avenue focused on new ideas and developments in
the local community, on campus, and across the world. The program invited community
and academic leaders, innovators, and critics to explain their work and why it
matters.  It aired on WYSU for almost 10 years, ending in 2012.

Doing Good -
Designed to raise social consciousness and public awareness about salient concerns
in our community, Doing Good also highlights good work and honest efforts being
directed at issues important to the Mahoning Valley.  This one-on-one interview
program is hosted by Gina Marinelli,  a former local news anchor and journalist,
and encourages listeners to become engaged and involved in projects and activities
featured on the show.

Locally hosted music programs have been part of WYSU programming
since 1969.  They include classical, jazz and folk music

