# Vermont Public Radio - WVPR

## Short name

Vermont Public Radio

## State

Vermont

## City

Colchester

## Logo

vpr\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.vpr.net/

## About

In 1975, four Vermonters gathered to create a public radio station for Vermont. 
National experts tried to dissuade them, reasoning that Vermont was too rural 
a state to support a station solely by listener support. Vermonters proved them 
wrong on every count and now reaches listeners all over the state. Vermont 
Public Radio was made possible by thousands of Vermonters that volunteered 
and contributed funds to provide ongoing access to programming that informs, 
educates and entertains and we're still going strong. For the past decade, 
the station has consistently ranked as one of the most-listened-to public 
radio stations in the country, based on radio listening per capita. Currently, 
more than 26,000 people contribute to VPR.

On October 1, 2007 Vermont Public Radio became two distinct services - VPR 
and VPR Classical. VPR offers news and information programming along with 
public radio entertainment favorites. And VPR Classical, our expanded network 
of stations providing classical music 24/7.

Vermont Public Radio's WVPR 89.5 FM in the Upper Valley became the first 
radio station in Vermont to begin broadcasting in HD digital sound on July 19, 2006. 
Fitting, given WVPR was Vermont's first public radio station.

As a community licensee, Vermont Public Radio operates with a state-wide Board 
of Directors and the majority of its funding comes from local community support.

VPR began broadcasting as WVPR 89.5 from studios in the historic Windsor House 
in Windsor, Vermont. In subsequent years, VPR expanded to include WVPS 107.9, 
Burlington; WRVT 88.7 Rutland; WVPA 88.5 in St. Johnsbury and WBTN 94.3 in 
Bennington, as well as VPR.net. In 2004, we launched WNCH 88.1 FM in Norwich, 
our flagship station for VPR Classical, which now covers most of the state.

As a state-wide resource, VPR is integral to the journalistic and cultural 
life of the region. Listeners are regularly heard on VPR, via call-in 
conversations on the daily noon newsmagazine Vermont Edition. Although it may 
have grown in size, VPR is still driven by its original mission: to extend 
involvement in contemporary affairs through programming that provides context 
to the events of today and the impact they have on the lives of Vermonters.

"VPR is a living example of what enthusiasm, vision, dedication and long-term 
commitment can build," says Robin Turnau, VPR President and CEO. "Together 
we've created a resource for the community that connects neighbors across 
the state. It's a connection that will only continue to strengthen ...."


## Productions


