# KEXP-FM

## Short name

KEXP

## State

Washington

## City

Seattle

## Logo

kexp_logo.png

## Url

http://www.kexp.org/

## History

Beginning as a tiny 10-watt station back in 1972, KEXP has grown
over the years into an innovative, influential cultural force in the Seattle community
and beyond. Some of the station's milestones include:

1972 -KCMU begins broadcasting
as a student-run station from a 10-watt transmitter at 90.5 FM atop McMahon Hall
on the University of Washington campus.

1981- UW budget cuts mean KCMU becomes
a community supported, listener powered station.

1982- Increased wattage (182-watts)
means listeners hear KCMU outside the University District for the first time.

1985-
KCMU forges the musical philosophy and programming focus that defines us today,
adding hip hop, roots, blues, contemporary global music, reggae, jazz, and more
to its lineup.

1986- KCMU moves to 90.3 FM, relocates its transmitter to Capitol
Hill, and boost its power to 400-watts so that listeners as far as 15 miles away
can pick up the signal.

1991- Seattle’s grunge scene explodes and KCMU is there,
championing local artists, venues, and record labels.

1999- KCMU partners with
the UW’s technology R&D team to develop innovative ways to serve more music lovers
via new media.

2000- KCMU is the first station in the world to offer uncompressed
CD-quality audio on the Internet. KCMU moves from its long-time home in the Communications
Bldg. (CMU) to Kane Hall.

2001- With the help of venture philanthropy from the
Paul G. Allen Family Foundation, KCMU becomes KEXP 90.3 FM, moving to its first
high-tech studios. KEXP nearly doubles its wattage from 400 to 720, serving many
more people in the Puget Sound, and creates more ways for people across the world
to enjoy the KEXP experience. KEXP’s UW engineers develop radio’s first real-time
playlist.

2002- KEXP launches radio’s first streaming archive. 

2003- KEXP develops
radio’s first cell phone stream.

2004- KEXP.org wins the Webby Award for Best
Radio Website.

2005- KEXP offers first live performance podcast.

2008- KEXP
teams up with Radio New York to produce Radio Liberation programming for the New
York airwaves. The programs aired through 2011.

2011- KEXP renews its collaboration
with UW for a 30-year term.

2012- KEXP celebrates its 40th anniversary. KEXP
partners with Seattle Theater Group and Starbucks to launch the Little Big Show
concert series with 100% of proceeds from ticket sales benefitting arts-based
programming and education for Seattle-area youth.

2013- KEXP partners with the
City of Seattle to build its New Home at Seattle Center, revolutionizing the way
contemporary artists and music is championed and nurtured in our community and
beyond. As part of the iconic local label’s Silver Jubilee, KEXP teamed up with
Sub Pop and Seattle Center to broadcast from the top of the Space Needle.

2014-
KEXP launches live video streaming service, KEXP Now. KEXP YouTube channel reaches
500,000 subscribers and over 270 million views. UW Board of Regents formally transfers
the KEXP 90.3 FM broadcast license from its ownership at University of Washington
to the Friends of KEXP nonprofit. This move helps secure KEXP’s future to champion
music and discovery for our three beneficiaries: music lovers, artists, and Seattle’s
vibrant music community.

2015- KEXP breaks ground on new home at Seattle Center.
Construction Begins February 2015 on KEXP’s New Home.


## Productions


