# KRCB

## Short name

KRCB

## State

California

## City

Rohnert Park

## Logo

krcb\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.krcb.org/

## About

KRCB first went on the air December 2, 1983, with a broadcast of
the PBS show NOVA. Conceived as "Public Television for the North Bay," KRCB
now broadcasts to much of the San Francisco Bay Area through satellite and cable
television carriage. KRCB's programming can also be seen on K27EE in Ukiah, California,
owned by a local television association. In one of the most crowded areas in the
U.S. for PBS and public broadcasting, KRCB is notable for its coverage of local
news and politics, and for the Emmy and Telly Award-winning, nationally distributed
environmental series, Natural Heroes.

In order to encourage full participation
in community and society, KRCB, Northern California Public Media provides informational,
educational, and cultural telecommunications services in partnership with our
community.  KRCB also engages the community through local initiatives like the
NEA's Big Read, Tengo La Voz - I Have The Voice, and The Best Seat in the House
Festival. Much of the regular programming comes from PBS, American Public Television,
and independent producers. Overnight programming is shared with the national satellite
station Link TV and includes shows such as Mosaic: World News from the Middle
East, while Create is digitally broadcast on KRCB DT2 and NHK is digitally broadcast
on KRCB DT3.


## Productions

KRCB programs include:

The nationally distributed series Natural Heroes

The nationally distributed documentary Rebels with a Cause

A regional series of TV, Radio and web programming “Community Health Connections” that examines
the effects of poverty on health outcomes, tied to economic, racial and geographic
factors. 

