# Colorado Public Television

## Short name

Colorado Public Television

## State

Colorado

## City

Denver

## Logo

colorado\_pt\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.cpt12.org/

## About

Originally known as KBDI Channel 12, Colorado Public Television (CPT12)
is a unique civic resource and one of the country’s first alternative public television
services. CPT12 provides important local, national and international programming
services that are otherwise not available in Colorado.

KBDI began operations
in Broomfield, Colorado, with transmitting facilities on Squaw Mountain in Clear
Creek County. At 11,500 feet, the site remains the highest of any full-power television
station in the nation. From there, KBDI began serving first the Denver Metro area,
and then the entire Colorado Front Range.

Today, Colorado Public Television has
grown to serve 85 percent of the state’s population. Ongoing improvements to its
transmitters and wider digital carriage on cable and satellite systems are extending
the station's reach in almost every direction across the state. Beyond Denver
and the Front Range, CPT12 is increasingly received in various Western Slope and
Eastern Plains communities, ever broadening its service throughout Colorado.

Since
2003, the station has offered digital programming on three multicast channels.
Today, these three channels include CPT12's flagship signal (12.1), a diverse
mix of local, national and international programming and infused with quality
PBS shows; CPT12+ (12.2), the best of independently produced documentaries, music,
travel, exercise, cooking, public affairs and more; and MHz Worldview (12.3),
a lineup of programs from around the world, including world news, foreign affairs,
international mysteries, world music, sports, and foreign films.

Frequently stretching
the boundaries of public television, the station has been called many things –
progressive, provocative, experimental, controversial, outrageous, courageous
and more as it has worked to illuminate key social issues, and provide a platform
for the underserved.   CPT12 has always championed experimentation, creativity,
new ideas and high broadcasting standards – all while working on a shoestring
budget.  Today, CPT12 maintains its independent spirit, even as it explores new
media outlets, expands its mission and deepens its community involvement.

Described
as “the little station that could” by the Denver Post, Colorado Public Television
remains lean and light on its feet – a small, frugal station that continues to
deliver programming that is relevant, informative, entertaining and thought-provoking.

Colorado
Public Television's tagline, “World View, Community Voice,” represents the station's
mission, programming choices, community activities and engagement with its Colorado
constituents. A global perspective combined with local conversations will continue
to be CPT12's guide into the future.


## Productions

Colorado Inside Out

Sounds on 29th

Studio 12

Tierra O Muerte:
Land Or Death - 1991 Alfred I. duPont-Columbia Award

Stories of Elyria - 1992
Regional Emmy for Best Documentary

Everything Has A Spirit - 1994 First Place
Documentary Award, Indian Film and Video Competition

Snapshots from the DNC -
2008 Colorado Broadcasters Association Award of Excellence for Best News or Public
Affairs Special

Colorado Inside Out “Circa 1858” and Studio 12 “Sudan” (tie winners)
- 2009 Regional Emmy Award for Best Interview/Discussion Program

Studio 12 “Back
to Sudan” - 2009 Colorado Broadcasters Association Award of Excellence for Best
News or Public Affairs Special

Allen True’s West - 2009 Colorado Broadcasters
Association Certificate of Merit for Best Mini-Documentary or Series

Colorado
Inside Out “Circa 1959” - 2010 Regional Emmy Award for Best Interview/Discussion
Program

Sandzen: Ecstacy of Color - 2010 Colorado Broadcasters Association Award
of Excellence for Best Mini-Documentary or Series

Studio 12 “Return to Iwo Jima”
- 2010 Colorado Broadcasters Association Award of Excellence for Best News or
Public Affairs Special

Colorado Inside Out “Circa 1935” - 2010 Colorado Broadcasters
Association Certificate of Merit for Best News & Public Affairs Special / 2011
Regional Emmy Award for Best Interview/Discussion Program

Rex Ray: How to Make
a Rex Ray - 2010 Colorado Broadcasters Association Certificate of Merit for Best
Mini-Documentary or Series

Sounds on 29th - 2012 Colorado Broadcasters Association
Certificate of Merit for Best Mini-Documentary or Series

Studio 12 "Aurora Theater
Shooting" - 2012 Colorado Broadcasters Association Award of Excellence for Best
Public Affairs Special Category

Studio 12 "Honoring America's War Heroes" -
2012 Colorado Broadcasters Association Certificate of Merit for Best News Special/Public
Affairs Special

