# WHUT-TV (Howard University Television)

## Short name

WHUT

## State

District of Columbia

## City

Washington

## Logo

whut\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.whut.org/

## About

WHUT went on air on November 17, 1980 as WHMM (Howard Multimedia).
The station came into existence through efforts that included Dr. James Cheek,
then president of Howard University, Millard J. (Jim) Watkins, an engineer and
now general manager, WHUR-FM, Howard University administrators, and officials
of WETA, which had been using a trailer on the Howard University campus as one
of its first broadcast sites.  The name was later changed from WHMM to WHUT (Howard
University Television) when those call letters became available.

A great deal
of public attention was paid locally and nationally to the station’s start as
it was, and remains, the first and only public broadcasting (PBS) station in the
United States licensed to and operated by a predominantly African American institution,
or historically black college/university (HBCU).  The local community and Howard
University supported the station and it grew under its first manager, a commercial
broadcast veteran, Arnold Wallace.  WHMM’s first anniversary was commemorated
with an extravagant gala hosted by comedian/actor Bill Cosby, and attended by
notable African American personalities such as boxer Sugar Ray Leonard, and actors
Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis.

By its tenth year, WHUT had produced several award-winning
programs with subject matter running the gamut from arts and healthcare to public
affairs and athletics. Through this programming, the station developed a brand
as a grounded, provocative, and community focused service.  The staff produced
diverse programming delving into a multitude of topics affecting the community.
It covered religion with Worship in Washington, entertained with Comedy Jam,
and offered news, information, analysis and entertainment with Evening Exchange
and @ Howard.  In 1995, it televised, live, the historic Million Man March, making
the full event available in the over two million homes reached by WHUT’s signal.
The station also attracted national talent and served as the production center
for the nationally televised PBS variety show, With Ozzie and Ruby, which ran
from 1981-82 and for The Reading Club, produced and distributed in 1999 by Bryant
Gumbel, Renee Poussaint and Alison Davis.

WHUT has garnered over 14 Emmys and
numerous other awards for its programming.

In 2010 the station and its staff
of 16 completed its digital transition. WHUT is now broadcasting in high-definition
and standard-definition.

In January 2011 WHUT has extended its broadcast service
to the community to a 24-hour, seven day a week presence.

WHUT plays an active
role in the local community with special events and programs specifically geared
toward literacy, STEM and early-childhood education.  WHUT has been awarded an
American Graduate: Let’s Make It Happen community service grant from The Corporation
for Public Broadcasting (CPB) to help Washington, DC improve youth outcomes for
all students from preschool through college and onto careers.


## Productions

The Rock Newman Show

Vocal Point

New View with Ed Gordon

