# PBS Hawaii (KHET)

## Short name

PBS Hawaii

## State

Hawaii

## City

Honolulu

## Logo

pbs_hawaii_logo.png

## Url

http://www.pbshawaii.org/home/index.php

## History

Established in 1965 as the State-funded Hawaii Educational Television
Network, providing educational TV for the University of Hawaii, PBS Hawaii then
became the State’s sole member of the Public Broadcasting Service and transitioned
to a 501c(3) nonprofit organization in 2000. PBS Hawaii complements the national
PBS programming with a suite of local shows designed to give voice to Hawaii’s
diverse population.


## Productions

Damien - In 1977, PBS Hawaii produced Damien, about a Roman Catholic
priest from Belgium who spent 16 years ministering to people with Hansen’s disease
(leprosy) on Moloka’i. He died from the disease in 1889 and was canonized in 2009.
The program was broadcast on PBS stations across the nation and went on to win
a Peabody award. 

Spectrum Hawaii - Spectrum was a long-running series which
celebrated the rich cultural and artistic life of Hawaii. In its segments are
stories of people who may no longer be with us, and places which may no longer
exist, making the program an archival treasure in and of itself. This is why we
chose Spectrum for the American Archive digitization project.

Na Mele: Na Lani
Eha - In 2012, for the first time in almost 40 years, television cameras were
allowed inside the nation’s only royal home, Iolani Palace, to capture
performances of music written by Hawaiian royalty performed by some of Hawaii’s
most beloved musicians. The historic, cultural, and musical significance of this
PBS Hawaii special makes it a program that will be cherished for generations to
come.

HIKI NŌ - Launched in 2011, PBS Hawaii’s award-winning flagship educational
initiative has exceeded expectations. Through HIKI NŌ, PBS Hawaii is 1) helping
Hawaii’s students develop digital media skills, 2) creating a cadre of well-trained
digital media teachers, 3) giving a voice to Hawaii’s youth from communities rarely
covered by the mainstream media, and 4) uncovering a treasure trove of student
stories that would otherwise go unheard. At a national conference of foundations
this month, the head of the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation singled out
HIKI NŌ as one of two exciting youth journalism projects in the country. 

