# Illinois Public Media (WILL)

## Short name

WILL Illinois Public Media

## State

Illinois

## City

Urbana

## Logo

will_logo.png

## Url

http://will.illinois.edu/

## History

The radio station that became WILL first signed on the air on March
27th, 1922 on the campus of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The
initial call letters were WRM for “We Reach Millions,” which was likely an overstatement
since the station shared its transmitter tube with faculty in the Department of
Electrical Engineering. But by the late 1920s, WILL-AM was broadcasting a regular
schedule of news, music performances, and programs intended to extend the educational
mission of the University of Illinois across the entire state.

In 1941 WILL-FM
signed on as the first FM radio station licensed to a university. Station engineers
wired 20 buildings across the campus to allow live broadcasts of classroom lectures
and public events. WILL broadcast many pivotal moments in our nation’s history,
through the Great Depression, World War II, the Cold War, the Civil Rights Movement,
and the tumultuous social changes in the 1960s and 70s. Recordings of many of
these broadcasts were preserved in the University of Illinois Archives, and are
now becoming part of the American Archive. 

In 1951 the newly-formed National
Association of Educational Broadcasters began delivering programs to noncommercial
radio stations across then United States from Gregory Hall in Urbana, Illinois,
the home of WILL Radio. The NAEB network emerged from conferences at the University
of Illinois’ Allerton House, underwritten by the Rockefeller Foundation, which
led to a growing recognition of the need for a national system of public broadcasting.
In 1961 the NAEB moved its headquarters from the Urbana campus to Washington D.C.
to be closer to the campaign to win federal support for creation of a public television
and radio system.

WILL-TV signed on in 1955, broadcasting programs produced by
WILL and other educational broadcasters. Throughout the 1950s and 60s, WILL-TV
aired a mix of telecourses offered by university departments, along with news,
documentaries, and children’s programming. 

With the signing of the Public Broadcasting
Act of 1967, what had been known as educational broadcasting became part of an
emerging public broadcasting system. WILL joined the PBS and National Public Radio
networks as they became central points for television and radio program distribution.
During the 1970s, programming on WILL Radio and Television became more focused
on news and public affairs, as part of the growing national network of professional
public broadcasting stations. 

With the emergence of the World Wide Web, WILL
embraced a new model of multi-platform content production and distribution. With
“digital first” becoming the mantra of the Internet age, WILL has worked to innovate
more effective ways of producing and distributing “born digital” content, while
preserving the rich historical record contained in its media archives.


## Productions

Illinois Broadcast Archives

African American Life in Central Illinois

WILL News

Focus 580

The Afternoon Magazine

Central Illinois World War II Stories

