# WTIU (Public Television from Indiana University)

## Short name

WTIU

## State

Indiana

## City

Bloomington

## Logo

wtiu\_logo.png

## Url

http://indianapublicmedia.org/tv/

## History

Signing on the air on March 3, 1969, WTIU is the public television station 
licensed to Indiana University, operating out of the Radio and TV Center on 
the Bloomington, Indiana campus.

The station serves south central Indiana, including the cities of Bloomington, 
Bedford, Columbus, and Terre Haute, and outlying communities. Through Satellite 
we now reach Indianapolis.  Approximately 587,525 TV households are included 
in the viewing area, cable, satellite, broadband and over-the-air combined, 
reaching an estimated 1,492,313 viewers.

Over 100 Indiana University students, from Indiana University’s Media School 
and many other disciplines, complement their academic training and develop 
marketable skills through real-world experience gained by working alongside 
the station’s staff.

With the television digital conversion in 2009, WTIU began broadcasting four 
separate channel streams — TIU HD, TIU World, TIU Family and TIU Espanol. 

WTIU is a member station of PBS, Indiana’s Public Broadcasting Stations, and 
The Association of Public Television Stations.


## Productions

Locally-produced programs include daily news breaks and a weekly magazine 
program covering people, places, and events from across the state entitled The Weekly Special. 

The Friday Zone, WTIU’s own weekly Emmy Award-winning children’s program, 
features activities and guests including performance and visual artists, and scientists.

Indiana Newsdesk covers the economy, politics, education and the environment 
for the WTIU viewing area. This weekly show from WTIU/WFIU News focuses on 
stories that have impact on our community, our state and our region. There 
are a number of other programs currently in production.

Recent local documentaries include Spirit of Orange County, Bill Cook: A Heck 
of a Ride, Bloomington: Remember When, Spirit of Brown County, Shadows Of 
Innocence, the Hoosier Hospitality series, the Indiana Legends series, 
Goose Pond: The Story Of A Wetland & Its Neighbors, and the Emmy Award-winning 
Sugarplum Dreams: Staging The Nutcracker Ballet, and West Baden Springs: 
Save of the Century. 

