# Louisiana Public Broadcasting

## Short name

Louisiana Public Broadcasting

## State

Louisiana

## City

Baton Rouge

## Logo

lpb_logo.png

## Url

http://ladigitalmedia.org/

## History

On September 6, 1975 at 11:58 a.m., longtime public television advocate
Lucille Woodard flipped a ceremonial switch to sign WLPB on in Baton Rouge. It
was the culmination of three years of hard work after the Legislature approved
the creation of the Louisiana Educational Television Authority. 

Woodard, a professor
at LSU, started working in the 1950s to get educational television throughout
the state. After decades of frustrated efforts, the Louisiana Educational Television
Authority was created in 1971 and the money to start the state network was appropriated.


KLTM-TV in Monroe was the second LPB station to go on the air in 1976, followed
by KLTS in Shreveport and KLPB in Lafayette in 1978. KLTL in Lake Charles signed
on in 1981 and KLPA-TV in Alexandria went on the air in 1983. LPB has also entered
into a partnership with WLAE-TV32 in New Orleans, which gives LPB a presence in
the Crescent City.

Louisiana: The State We’re In was started in 1976 with current
Executive Director/CEO Beth Courtney as host and producer. The only statewide
magazine in Louisiana, it has garnered many journalism and public affairs awards
during its 38-year history. 

Our first nationally–syndicated show was Justin
Wilson’s Louisiana Cooking.  Our 13th series with Chef John Folse, Hook Lies and
Alibis, premiered in 2015.

Documentaries about Louisiana and its “unique” politics
have always been a major part of LPB’s locally produced programming. LPB combined
with rising filmmaker Ken Burns (The Civil War) to produce Huey Long. Other award-winning
documentaries produced or co-produced by LPB have included Uncle Earl and Lindy
Boggs: Steel & Velvet.

The six-part series Louisiana: A History, LPB’s biggest
and most lauded project to date, premiered in September 2003 to coincide with
the 200th anniversary of the Louisiana Purchase. 

Preserving and showcasing our
state’s history has always been a goal for LPB. Documentaries such as Signpost
to Freedom: The 1953 Baton Rouge Bus Boycott and Against the Tide: The Story of
the Cajun People of Louisiana have all explored little-known aspects of our past
and present. 

In the 1990s, LPB produced a wide range of documentaries about
our state’s artists, including Ernest Gaines: Louisiana Stories, Frame After Frame:
The Images of Herman Leonard, and Kate Chopin: A Re-Awakening.

When Hurricanes
Katrina and Rita devastated South Louisiana and New Orleans, LPB documented the
heroic actions of rescuers through Katrina’s Smallest Victims and the stories
of the storm survivors trying to put the lives back together in American Creole
and Washing Away: Losing Louisiana.

LPB has continued to turn out award-winning
documentaries. In 2012 the network was chosen to create the official documentary
for the state’s 200th anniversary of joining the Union, Louisiana: 200 Years of
Statehood.  When a program was needed to kick off the Year of Music in 2013, LPB
joined forces with the Lt. Governor’s Office and Harry Connick, Jr. to create
Sunshine By the Stars: Celebrating Louisiana Music. It featured an all-star lineup
of Louisiana musicians performing their unique versions of one of Louisiana’s
State Songs “You Are My Sunshine.” 


## Productions

Louisiana: The State We’re In – Louisiana’s only statewide newsmagazine,
now in its 38th season.  It started in November 1976, a little over a year after
LPB went on the air. 

A Taste of Louisiana with Chef John Folse – Our longest
running cooking show.  It started in 1990.  We’ll be airing the 13th season next
year. 

Louisiana: A History – A six-part series produced for the 200th anniversary
of the Louisiana Purchase in 2003. 

Sunshine By The Stars: Celebrating Louisiana’s
Music – We had famous Louisiana musicians cover one of our state songs “You Are
My Sunshine” in their own styles.  The song was written by our two-term Governor
Jimmie Davis. 

Alive! In America’s Delta – a six-part wildlife documentary series. 

