# Maryland Public Television

## Short name

Maryland Public Television

## State

Maryland

## City

Owings Mills

## Logo

mpt\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.mpt.org/

## History

In 1966, an act of the Maryland Legislature established the Maryland
Educational-Cultural Television Commission, the governance body of what became
known as the Maryland Center for Public Broadcasting and, later, Maryland Public
Television. Ground was broken for a headquarters and studio facility in suburban
Baltimore County’s community of Owings Mills on June 5, 1968, and the center went
on the air on October 5, 1969.  The founding executive director, Dr. Frederick
Breitenfeld, Jr., already a leading figure in public broadcasting at the time
of his appointment, served as chief executive for 17 years.

The center was established
as a nonprofit, state-licensed public television network and member of the Public
Broadcasting Service (PBS).  The state license required statewide reach, and so
six towers across the state enabled MPT to get its then-analog signal to all corners
of Maryland and into contiguous states and the District of Columbia.  In 1976,
the center initiated its first satellite communications project, linking two universities
in a law school moot court competition some 22,300 miles in space.

The 1970s
and 1980s saw the introduction of an astounding variety of center-produced historical
dramas, how-to programs, nature, and music offerings in addition to educational
and cultural programming. It was during this time that several MPT series enjoyed
their premieres and what would become decades-long popularity among viewers locally
and nationally.  MPT was rewarded for is production prowess with dozens of Emmy®
Awards (four of them national and the remainder regional) along with an impressive
list of other major broadcasting honors.

In 1984, the name Maryland Center for
Public Broadcasting gave way to Maryland Public Television. In 2004, MPT began
broadcasting in both analog and digital formats until digital-only transmission
started in 2009.  In 2007, MPT introduced V-me, a 24-hour Spanish language channel,
which joined MPT’s two other digital channels, the primary MPT-HD and secondary
channel MPT2, in the daily programming lineup. 

MPT has been a pioneer in the
production, delivery and dissemination of pre-K-12 educational resources and online
courses. The award-winning education website Thinkport.org, launched in 2003,
offers high-quality lesson plans, digital media, learning games and resources
for educators, schools, the child care population, and families.  

Another MPT
educational endeavor, started in the late 1960s, came out of the State Department
of Education’s formation of a Division of Instructional Television.   ITV, as
it was known, was awarded one-third of the Maryland Center for Public Broadcasting’s
available production facilities, staff, and program schedule. By 1980-81 over
42% of Maryland teachers were using instructional television. 

In 1970, College
of the Air debuted, as the center became the largest U.S. producer of telecourses
for credit. Today, via Thinkport, the platform for learning has expanded to embrace
online and mobile technologies, but MPT remains committed to being Maryland’s
sole statewide educator just as it was in the 1970s and ‘80s.  

Starting in 2007,
the Corporation for Public Broadcasting funded MPT to participate in the the American
Archive inventory of public media content. Working on a tight deadline of five
months beginning in late summer and finishing in December 2011, an MPT team worked
3,500 hours and was able to inventory almost 48,000 assets.

Today, under the
leadership of CEO Larry D. Unger, MPT’s fifth president, some 140 staff members
continue to produce award-winning local and national public television programs,
to provide distinctive online content and community outreach initiatives, and
to offer an impressive array of educational resources for children, teachers,
families, and daycare providers across the state and nationally.


## Productions

- Wall $treet Week With Louis Rukeyser - 1972-2002; highlight was
1987 broadcast from London Stock Exchange to more than 300 U.S. PBS stations

- MotorWeek – 1981-present; television’s longest-running automotive series

- Our Street – groundbreaking
MPT-produced drama focusing on then-described “Negro family life in West Baltimore”

- Crabs – 1984; half-hour comedy special live studio audience, numerous national and international
awards

- Consumer Survival Kit, 1973-79, more than 100 30-minute programs; series
educated consumers; nationally distributed to PBS from 1974-79

- HodgePodge Lodge – 1970-76; 600 30-min. programs, nature series; the first privately underwritten,
MPT-produced program; distributed nationally 

