# WGBH

## Short name

WGBH

## State

Massachusetts

## City

Boston

## Logo

wgbh\_logo.png

## Url

http://openvault.wgbh.org

## About

WGBH traces its roots back to 1836, when textile merchant John Lowell, Jr. (of the illustrious “Lowells of 
Massachusetts,” one of America’s great early families) left a bequest creating “free public lectures for the benefit 
of the citizens of Boston.” In his will, Lowell set aside $250,000, half his estate, to underwrite the public lectures 
in perpetuity.

In the early 1940s the position of Trustee of the Lowell Institute passed to Ralph Lowell. Intrigued by the 
Federal Communications Commission’s 1945 announcement that 20 of the 90 radio channels in the newly relocated 
frequency modulation (FM) band had been reserved for noncommercial stations, Lowell considered a Lowell Institute 
FM station as a new way to fulfill the institute’s mission. Conversations with James Bryant Conant, president of 
Harvard University, led instead to the notion that Boston-area universities and colleges produce educational 
programs for broadcast on commercial AM outlets.

In 1946, the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broadcasting Council (LICBC) was formed—a cooperative venture with six 
Boston colleges, broadcasting lectures on commercial radio. 

In April 1951, the WGBH Educational Foundation was formed, to launch an FM station that would carry the LICBC 
lectures. The “GBH” stood for Great Blue Hill, the site of the station’s antenna atop a Harvard-operated weather 
observatory. The incorporators and original board members were Ralph Lowell (as Trustee of the Lowell Institute), 
the presidents and treasurers of Harvard and MIT, and the president of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. 

Noncommercial radio station WGBH-FM made its initial broadcast on October 6, 1951: the first Saturday-evening 
performance of the BSO’s 71st season, live from Boston’s famed Symphony Hall. The broadcast opened with words of 
welcome from Ralph Lowell and BSO President Henry Cabot. It was the first full-length broadcast of a symphony concert 
in Boston in 25 years. Only 15 percent of the households in Greater Boston had FM receivers, but WGBH’s premiere foray 
was considered a rousing success. During its first year, WGBH-FM broadcast 2,600 hours of programming—10 times the 
amount the LICBC had been allotted on commercial radio.

On May 2, 1955, WGBH-TV signed on for the first time. Its first broadcast was Come and See, a program for young 
children with folk singer Tony Saletan and Mary Lou Adams from Tufts University Nursery Training School. That was 
followed by Louis Lyons (a WGBH-FM fixture) reading the news before a camera. 

Most early “Channel 2” programs were course lectures: French Through Television, Your Income Taxes, From Criminal 
to Citizen. Over time, WGBH made its mark by creating programs locally that were shared with other stations—this prior 
to the creation of the Public Broadcasting Service. Notable among them was Prospects of Mankind, a monthly series in 
which former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt interviewed statesmen from all over the world.

In 1962, WGBH produced three programs on French cooking, after a Cambridge cookbook author appeared on a WGBH 
book-review program and whipped up not only egg whites but an interest in how-to television. Within a year The French 
Chef with Julia Child was teaching audiences in several major cities to cook with courage. “Educational TV” had its 
first national star—and WGBH had the first in a long line of productions that would transform American broadcasting 
and put the Boston station on the map.

Today, WGBH is public broadcasting for New England, the number one producer of PBS programming (on TV, the Web, 
online, and mobile), a major source of public radio content, and a pioneer in both educational multimedia and media 
access solutions serving millions of people with disabilities.


## Productions

WGBH’s best-known television series include Frontline, NOVA, American Experience, Masterpiece, and PBS’ #1 rated 
Antiques Roadshow. A record in award-winning programs for children began in 1972 with Zoom and includes past shows 
such as Degrassi Junior High, Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego, Between the Lions, and FETCH! with Ruff 
Ruffman. Current children’s programs include the #1 PBS show for preschoolers (Curious George), the top two ranked 
PBS programs for kids 6-11 (Curious George and Arthur, respectively), and the popular series Peep and the Big Wide 
World, Martha Speaks, and Design Squad Nation. 

WGBH Radio distributes national productions such as The World (co-produced by WGBH, PRI, and the BBC), which 
reaches 2.5 million listeners. WGBH Radio also serves our local community through analog and digital high-definition 
radio stations, including 89.7 FM and 99.5 FM All Classical. Our radio broadcasts reach over 335,000 listeners weekly, 
and over a hundred thousand more log on to wgbh.org’s live audio streaming each month. In 2012, WGBH acquired 
Public Radio International, whose programs can be heard on over 800 public radio stations.

WGBH’s local television productions address the needs and interests of the region through programs like Greater 
Boston (a daily news and public affairs show) and Basic Black (a weekly series focusing on the African-American 
experience in Boston and beyond). La Plaza, a weekly local program on the culture and concerns of Latino 
communities, aired for over 30 years on WGBH. A recent addition to WGBH’s local line-up is High School Quiz Show, 
a televised match-up of competing quiz bowl teams from high schools across the state that is now in its fourth 
season. In 2012, WGBH pioneered a new partnership with New Hampshire Public Television (NHPTV), which will 
streamline operations and encourage the continued production of thoughtful, community-driven public media. 

