# WGBY

## Short name

WGBY

## State

Massachusetts

## City

Springfield

## Logo

wgby\_logo.png

## Url

http://wgby.org/

## History

WGBY-TV (formerly known as Channel 57) a division of WGBH Educational
Foundation began its broadcasting service in Springfield, Massachusetts as the
western link of the Massachusetts Public Broadcasting Network on September 26,
1971.

WGBY has a demographic of over 950,000.  It is extremely proud of its award
winning documentaries and story- telling skills that celebrate local heritage
and individuals, its weekly WGBY produced local programming, its education and
outreach programs that compliment and expand its programming through a multiple
of media venues, and its numerous partnerships with organization throughout its
entire viewing area.  These programs are all imprinted with WGBY’s mission to
connect the people of our region with ideas, events and each other.  WGBY is unique
in public broadcasting.  While licensed to the WGBH Educational Foundation by
the FCC and operated under the Foundation’s IRS status, WGBY has been programmed
and managed separately since 1971.  WGBY holds its own membership in the Public
Broadcasting Service.  

Today, WGBY-TV continues to engage, educate, explore,
and entertain.   As in 1971, WGBY strives to be a unique community asset worthy
of being considered by the citizens as the foremost public television station
for western New England.


## Productions

Connecting Point - WGBY continues to present a 3-night-a-week
look at news headlines and feature content.  Each magazine style program features
interviews, analysis, field production, and commentary focused on the communities
in western New England that we serve.  

Together in Song - WGBY continues to
celebrate the living choral tradition in western New England with our original
series Together In Song.  Judges and viewers select the top 7 ensembles out of
40 who participate each year. Those 7 groups perform live on stage with a studio
audience plus viewers at home who tune in for the event. This audience interactive
series, hosted by Kevin Rhodes, Music Director of the Springfield Symphony Orchestra,
showcases the talents of over a thousand singers from throughout the WGBY viewing
area each season. 

As Schools Match Wits - As Schools Match Wits is a treasured
western New England institution.  This series is a co-production and partnership
with Westfield State University.   As Schools Match Wits is an academic quiz
show competition open to both public and private high schools throughout western
New England (including MA, CT & VT), and is one of the longest-running shows of
its kind in the nation.  ASMW showcases the best and brightest high school students
that western NE has to offer, allowing them to shine in a venue which celebrates
learning.

Latino Youth Media Institute (LYMI) - WGBY’s vision for the Latino
Youth Media Institute is to give young Latinos who have an interest in pursuing
a career in media an opportunity to explore their choice of media through an internship,
with the hope that they will continue their education in that field.  The institute’s
purpose is to assist more Latinos in entering communications fields as journalists,
television or radio producers, hosts, writers, etc. 

Telling Our Legacies Digitally
(TOLD) - WGBY’s TOLD is a community-based digital storytelling project that is
designed to engage members of our communities.  In this series of interactive
workshops, participants learn through a fun, hands-on, team-building approach
and are guided through a process that combines storytelling with modern-day technology.
Participants write their own scripts, create storyboards, and record their voices.
Each participant also learns how to edit photographs, add effects, and use video
software to assemble all of these elements into a “digital story.” At the end
of the workshop, WGBY invites peers, family, and community to a public screening
of the stories where participants talk about their experience in the workshop.
The screenings are remarkable, healing, and transformational. The stories give
voice to the voiceless, strengthen literacy, stimulate dialogue, and build community.
These digital stories preserve the history, culture, ideas, and legacies of our
community.

