# WKAR

## Short name

WKAR

## State

Michigan

## City

East Lansing

## Logo

wkar\_logo.png

## Url

http://wkar.org/

## About

WKAR began broadcasting in 1922 on WKAR AM, with WKAR FM following
in 1948 and WKAR TV in 1954. WKAR serves the mid-Michigan market with public broadcasting
on WKAR Radio and WKAR-TV, with its reach expanding to an even wider audience
with WKAR.org. Programming on WKAR’s public radio stations, WKAR AM/870 and 90.5
WKAR, includes news and information, sports and classical music with National
Public Radio programming supplemented with programs produced at WKAR, reflecting
the community. 

WKAR-TV has three television stations that not only broadcast
programs from the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) but also reflect the mid-Michigan
community with a number of locally-produced series and specials. As part of the
College of Communication Arts & Sciences at MSU, WKAR works closely with the next
generation of broadcasters. 

In addition to programming on WKAR Radio and Television,
WKAR offers a robust website, WKAR.org, that includes live streaming of 90.5 WKAR
and AM/870, plus three online-only streams, WKAR Classical, WKAR Folk Alley and
WKAR Jazz. 


## Productions

WKAR Television:

Off the Record - Michigan public affairs and
discussions with newsmakers featuring anchor Tim Skubick.

QuizBusters - Weekly
academic game show, where 64 students compete for scholarships to Michigan State
University.

BackStage Pass - Concerts series, recorded live in studio and at
community venues and aired by public television stations in 82 markets across
the country.

Forte - Heartwarming stories of Michigan high school band and orchestra
programs as students prepare for elite competition.

Curious Crew - Award-winning
educator Rob Stephenson and a cast of inquisitive kids take a hands-on
approach to scientific exploration.

Current Sports - In-depth weekly interviews
of leading sports figures from the college, professional and high school ranks.

WKAR
Radio:

90.5 Classical - Classical music with local hosts and commentary that
adds insight into the selections played.

Current State - Daily talk hosted by
Mark Bashore and covering a variety of topics relevant to both the mid-Michigan
and Michigan State University communities.

Current Sports with Al Martin - Weekday
sports call in show.

90.5 Community Concerts - This weekly classical music program
hosted by Jody Knol features selections from concerts performed by regional symphony
orchestras and musical ensembles.

What’s New on WKAR - Hosted by Peter Whorf,
this weekly series features selections from new releases recently added to WKAR’s
music library.

MSU Faculty Recitals - This periodic series of recitals feature
faculty from Michigan State University’s College of Music.

Local News Breaks
- News and features across a broad spectrum of topics air in newsbreaks during
the popular NPR flagship news programs, “Morning Edition” and “All Things Considered.”

WKAR
Services:

WKAR Ready To Learn Service - Focuses on early childhood literacy and
includes strategies to help parents learn how to enhance their child’s literacy.


WKAR Radio Reading Service - This free service offers audio of local newspapers,
advertising supplements, books and more on a special radio for those who cannot
use the printed page due to vision or other physical problems. 

