# KCPT (KCPT Public Television 19)

## Short name

KCPT

## State

Missouri

## City

Kansas City

## Logo

kcpt\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.kcpt.org/

## About

On March 29, 1961, Channel 19 signed on the air as KCSD, an instructional 
television station owned and operated by the Kansas City Missouri School 
District. Ten years later, when the district chose to relinquish its broadcast 
license, a group of civic leaders including Homer Wadsworth and Charles Curran 
used gifts from George Powell, Sr. and John Francis to provide for the 
establishment of a non-profit agency to create a public television station 
for Kansas City and the surrounding areas of Kansas and Missouri. Ownership 
of the broadcast license was granted in January 1972, creating a 
community-licensed public television station operating under the call 
letters KCPT. KCPT began transmitting national programs offered by the 
Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) in 1970.

Today KCPT is a telecommunications center serving over 2.2 million potential 
viewers with quality television programs available to anyone with a television 
set within a 34-county radius. Though now a community licensee, KCPT continues 
to provide education services to more than 120,000 students and 8,000+ 
teachers in K-12 schools with instructional television and online services 
within Missouri and Kansas. The station also provides educational programming 
and support services to early childhood students, parents and teachers and 
college distance learning efforts. 2013 brought two major changes to KCPT. 
The station purchased The Bridge, 90.9FM, a public radio all music format 
station, placing great emphasis on local musicians, and opened the Hale 
Center for Journalism focusing resources on regional stories.


## Productions

- KC Illustrated
- Marquee
- State House Debates

