# Ozarks Public Broadcasting (KOZK/KOZJ)

## Short name

Ozarks Public Television

## State

Missouri

## City

Springfield

## Logo

ozarks\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.optv.org/

## About

Ozarks Public Television is the Missouri State licensee for KOZK-TV,
channel 21 in Springfield, Missouri and KOZJ-TV, channel 26 in Joplin, Missouri.

As
a university licensee, KOZK's studios and offices are located on the Missouri
State University campus in Springfield.

Ozarks Public Television provides PBS
programming and instructional television services to 549,540 households in Southwest
Missouri and the adjoining three state area. OPTV broadcasts 168 hours of programming
per week with a supporting membership of about 6,500 members and over 100 corporate
and institutional underwriters.

Strong local community commitment, support, and
involvement provides a volunteer staff augmenting station operations in a variety
of tasks. Volunteers provide support in production, administrative, and fundraising
tasks, including operation of two televised auctions.

KOZJ/channel 26, a "satellite"
station of KOZK/Springfield, began broadcasting in 1986. Although a Missouri State
licensee, the business office is located in downtown Joplin with transmission
facilities located at KODE, the Joplin ABC affiliate.

Ozarks Public Television
offices and studios are located in Strong Hall on the Missouri State University
campus in Springfield, Missouri.

We strive to ensure we capture the history and
heritage that has made the Ozarks a great place to live.  Just like everyone else
we are a small staff trying to do a lot of work that informs, educates and entertains
our viewers.


## Productions

OzarksWatch Video Magazine – The goal of the series is to increase
the knowledge and understanding of the region.  The series began in 1999, and we
do approximately 12 to 15 new shows a year.  It airs weekly and documents, presents
and preserves the unique heritage of the Ozarks.  We have over 210 episodes completed
over the years and they can be seen by going to our website.

Local Documentaries
– We produced our first local documentary in 2003 entitled, Ozark Jubilee:  A
Living Legacy.  After that we started doing one new one a year and now we are
producing two local documentaries each year.  They have a wide range of topics
and have been a huge success for our station.  Again, a list of these productions
are on our website as well.  The last two we did this year was Stately Images:
The Public Art of Missouri’s State Capitol (it was a 30 minute program based on
all the art work that is in our state capitol building in Jefferson City, including
many painting by Thomas Hart Benton) and the second program was Links to the Past,
Fairways to the Future (it was a 90 minute documentary that centered around the
history of golf in the Ozarks which dates back over 100 years and went all the way through the
present).  We are currently sitting on 17 documentaries (ranging from 30 to
120 minutes in length with two more for 2015 in production).

Passport to
China – This is a series of 12 programs that we produced to help people become
better acquainted with the people, customs, traditions and language of China.
MSU currently has over 800 students enrolled from China and in return we send
students and faculty members to China.  The programs provide insight to the culture
of Chinese people, take people in the Ozarks to places they may have only read
about and show them how much we are alike.  It has been a very successful series
and we are currently preparing to do a new series of shows about South America,
Central America, Mexico and Cuba.  That series will begin in January of 2016.

