# New Jersey Network

## Short name

New Jersey Network

## State

New Jersey

## City

Trenton

## Logo

njn_logo.png

## Url

http://www.njtvonline.org/

## History

In 1968, the "New Jersey Public Broadcasting Authority Act of 1968"
established the New Jersey Public Broadcasting Authority (“NJPBA”) in response
to the perceived lack of coverage by both commercial and public broadcasters of
public affairs in New Jersey. NJPBA was tasked with promoting "the intellectual,
cultural and civic development of the community by providing a broad range of
programs for all ages." NJPBA is the FCC licensee of four television broadcast
stations and three television translators, which are operated in concert as a
statewide network. 

Over 40 years of broadcasting, the NJPBA, operating under
the name of New Jersey Public Television and then New Jersey Network, became one
of the nation’s top public broadcasting producers of local content. The network
developed and produced a live nightly news program, NJN News, along with several
award-winning series and specials with a focus on public affairs, covering topics
ranging from politics and the New Jersey Statehouse to education, health and medical
affairs, environmental issues, youth violence, urban affairs, sports, and business
in New Jersey.

In July 2011, the NJPBA entered into a Programming and Services
Agreement with Public Media, NJ (“PMNJ”), a New Jersey, not-for-profit corporation,
to provide public television programming and services on the network under the
name of NJTV and online at NJTVonline.org. Today, NJPBA works to ensure that PMNJ
continues to provide high-quality, non-commercial programming that serves the
needs and interests of the citizens of New Jersey and furthers NJPBA’s educational
objectives.  NJPBA is also the steward of the historically and culturally valuable
NJN program library, which contains an estimated 80,000 to 100,000 media assets
that cover 40,000 to 50,000 hours of material. NJPBA is working toward the goal
of cataloging, preserving, and making the 40 years’ worth of media content created
by NJN available to the public.


## Productions

NJN News - A 30-minute daily news program focused on the issues
and events relevant to New Jersey’s citizens.  

On the Record - A 30-minute weekly
program featuring one-on-one interviews with New Jersey newsmakers and lawmakers.

Reporters Roundtable with Michael Aron - A 30-minute weekly program featuring
reporters discussing New Jersey’s political scene.  

Images/Imagenes - The longest
running Latino community program in the history of PBS, this 30-minute weekly
program focused on cultural events and public affairs in the Hispanic community
and featured the annual special, NJN Hispanic Youth Showcase, which provided scholarships
for some of New Jersey’s finest young Hispanic dancers, musicians, and singers.

State
of the Arts - A 30-minute weekly program on location with creative personalities
in New Jersey.

Due Process - A 30-minute weekly program addressing contemporary
legal issues and featuring various legal professionals and experts.  

Another
View - A 30-minute monthly public affairs program focused on New Jersey’s African-American
communities.  

Classroom Close-up, NJ - A 30-minute weekly program featuring
New Jersey’s public school success stories.  

