# KNME

## Short name

New Mexico PBS

## State

New Mexico

## City

Albuquerque

## Logo

newmexicopbs\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.newmexicopbs.org/

## History

KNME-TV signed on the air in 1958 as the first public “educational”
television station in New Mexico.  Licensed to both the University of New Mexico
and Albuquerque Public Schools, KNME-TV is unique in broadcasting with this diverse,
collaborative licensee structure. New Mexico PBS serves the people of New Mexico
by providing engaging local and national content, in-depth news and public affairs,
digital media, education and outreach services, lifelong learning, an interactive
web site, and a celebration of arts and culture.

As the television industry has
matured and changed so has KNME-TV.  Our history of accomplishments includes a
number of groundbreaking television shows like Dr. George Fishbeck’s Science,
Colores!, and New Mexico in Focus.  KNME was the first television station in New
Mexico to broadcast a digital signal and to adopt the new digital high-definition
standard on a continuous basis.   KNME-TV is one of the most watched public television
stations in the country reaching almost 700,000 households each week with 20,000
members in central and northern New Mexico.

In 2009, KNMD-TV joined KNME-TV as
a second Public Television service, providing enlightening and entertaining programming
in support of New Mexico’s education systems.  This increase in capacity, concurrent
with innovations in on-line delivery of content, and expansion of our satellite
distribution services drove the need for a new umbrella brand, New Mexico PBS.

New Mexico PBS operates two digital high power transmitters and 33 low-power
translators to provide free over the air viewing to the people of New Mexico.
These transmitters provided greater than 99% reliability during the past year.
New Mexico PBS recently added a new translator to the Shiprock area which serves
the Navajo Nation.

New Mexico PBS has extensive partnerships throughout the community.
These partnerships include the K-12 community, higher-education, dozens of community
service organizations and more.  Our broad reach on-air, on-line and on the ground
comprise an extensive educational and community service organization in New Mexico.
New Mexico PBS’ Ready to Learn Service impacts the lives of thousands of children
in New Mexico presenting over 90 workshops for parents and caregivers and distributing
thousands of books.

New Mexico PBS provides important local programming to the
citizens of New Mexico. New Mexico PBS productions have won national and regional
awards including a Peabody Award, a national Emmy, and 40 regional Emmys.


## Productions

Colores! - Our weekly cultural affairs series looks at the inspiration,
challenges, and processes of a wide range of local and national artists, authors,
actors, musicians and more.  COLORES! is presented though a collaboration between
new Mexico PBS and the Public Television Major Market Group (MMG), a public television
affinity group.   Colores! is funded by The Frederick Hammersley Foundation.

Public
Square - brings together community leaders and citizens for an impassioned and
informed discussion about some of the biggest issues facing our children today.
Topics included youth mental health, women’s economic empowerment in New Mexico,
transitioning out of foster care, early brain development, impact of domestic
violence on children and access to children’s healthcare. Public Square is funded
by a grant from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation.

New Mexico In Focus - is New Mexico
PBS’ prime-time weekly news magazine show covering the events, issues, and people
that are shaping life in New Mexico and the Southwest. Hosted by Gene Grant, New
Mexico In Focus provides in-depth coverage of issues and on topics including politics,
health care, drought, economic development and more.

New Mexico PBS produces
inspiring and informative programs showcasing the beauty, culture and history
of the American Southwest with programs such as Balloon Fiesta, Painting Taos,
The Sandias.

