# WCNY

## Short name

WCNY

## State

New York

## City

Liverpool

## Logo

wcny\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.wcny.org/

## About

WCNY, founded in 1965 as The Educational Television Council of Central
New York, is today a community-owned public media company that produces content
across multiple platforms, including television and radio programs, dynamic web
and targeted e-mail content, the bimonthly WCNY Connect magazine, and of course,
social media. Through our use of streaming technology, we now have a global broadcast
audience of viewers and listeners throughout the United States and 17 countries.

As Central New York's public media voice and a dual licensee public broadcaster
(now five television and three radio channels), WCNY serves 1.8 million households
over an area that comprises about one-third of New York.  This audience relies
on WCNY for local television and radio production, educational outreach, and educational
web content and services.  We are an innovator in local and national programming,
as evidenced by numerous awards including Emmys, for our local television programming
including Cycle of Health, Financial Fitness, Insight, Double Down and Ivory Tower
along with long-form documentaries.  We are the smallest city in America to have
a hosted classical radio show, nearly 2000 visually-impaired community members
enjoy the services of our 24/7 Readout Radio service, and the community is invited
to attend our Live at Noon performances (broadcast on radio live) that feature
outstanding local, regional, and national musicians and vocalists.  

In our new
10,000-square-foot Education Center, we offer a wide range of educational programs
for learners of all ages.  Education is central to WCNY’s mission.  Our Enterprise
America program combines classroom lessons with the opportunity for students to
run a model city of 14 businesses and a City Hall. Our Media Marketing Communications
Career and Technical Education (CTE) course for high school students embeds students
with our WCNY professionals to provide hands-on learning while also offering academic
college courses.  Through experiential learning opportunities like these we aim
to foster tomorrow’s entrepreneurial leaders.

As the public voice for Central
New York, the mission at WCNY is ‘connecting’ with and giving back to the community
that supports us.  Educating, entertaining, and inspiring the public, as well
as encouraging a deep appreciation for diversity and our shared humanity with
content-rich programming, is what we do.  The archives provide WCNY with a way
to ensure that our programming history is recorded, and that productions we have
created are accessible for future generations.


## Productions

Television: Artic Air, The Barn, Central New
York in the 40s, William Henry Seward: Lincoln’s Right Hand, The Performers: Taking
Center Stage in NYS Agriculture, Dream Destinations: New York’s Contemporary Canals,
Losing Ground: The Battle to Preserve War of 1812 Battlefields in New York State,
and annual Bluegrass Ramble Picnics and Barn Dances are examples of significant
local history, arts, and public affairs programming our staff has created.  

Radio:The
radio recordings of the now-defunct Syracuse Symphony, Live at Noon specials,
and Bluegrass Ramble shows hosted by Bill Knowlton, the recipient of a Distinguished
Achievement Award from the International Bluegrass Music Association for his pioneering
work in the field of bluegrass music, are examples of significant radio productions
created by WCNY.

