# UNC-TV

## Short name

UNC-TV

## State

North Carolina

## City

Research Triangle Park

## Logo

unctv\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.unctv.org/

## History

Today, UNC-TV is the 12-station statewide public television network
for North Carolina, reaching all 100 counties with four channels of national and
local program content, as well as parts of Virginia, South Carolina, Tennessee
and Georgia.  A lot has changed since WUNC-TV in Chapel Hill signed on as the
nation’s tenth “educational television” station on January 8, 1955, largely due
to the efforts of three visionary leaders.  William C. “Billy” Carmichael, the
University of North Carolina’s vice president for finance, University alumnus
and famous band lead Kay Kyser, and eventual university president William Friday
– then the assistant to the university’s president, Gordon Gray – spearheaded
an effort to use the burgeoning power of television to bring non-commercial educational
content to the citizens of the state.  This group recognized the unique opportunity
when the Federal Communications Commission offered eight channels in North Carolina
for non-commercial uses in 1952.  They traveled the state marshaling contributions
and support for both public and private funding, and so UNC-TV was born.

William
Friday became president of the university system in 1957, and during his legendary
30 year tenure in that position, he continued to be a powerful and effective advocate
for the importance and value of public television.  Gradually, it transitioned
from an operation run primarily by students and faculty members to a fully professional
broadcasting organization.  With the advent of PBS in 1968, UNC-TV was transformed
from the old educational television model to being a source for mission-driven
programming for general audiences.  In the meantime, UNC-TV continued to expand
its reach, gradually adding transmitter sites to cover more of the state.  In
1979, the University of North Carolina Center for Public Television was established
by the university’s board of governors, and 10 years later operations were finally
consolidated in one location, the network’s current headquarters and studios in
Research Triangle Park.

In many ways, the much-beloved William Friday was the
face of UNC-TV.  In addition to his advocacy and leadership as university president,
he was also the host of the longest-running program in UNC-TV history, North Carolina
People with William Friday.  The program went on the air in 1971 and continued
its weekly run until President Friday passed away at the age of 92 in October,
2012.  In a warm and informal one-on-one interview format, Friday engaged North
Carolinians from all walks of life, from the exalted to the humble, coaxing out
the stories that make every life interesting, and his viewing audience remained
loyal throughout his life. In 2014 the Board of Governors of the National Academy
of Television Arts and Sciences, Nashville/Midsouth Chapter, honored William Friday
with posthumous induction as the inaugural member of its Gold Circle for his exceptional
service to the advancement of public television.  At the same time, the chapter
also presented UNC-TV with its Governor’s Award in recognition of the network’s
history of exemplary service to the state of North Carolina.

Today, UNC-TV not
only brings programming from PBS, the BBC and other sources to the entire state,
it produces more than 300 hours of original programming each year for and about
North Carolina.  Looking to the future, UNC-TV continues extending its content
into the ever-growing array of digital platforms, and expanding its mission to
include even more opportunities for public service.


## Productions

North Carolina People with William Friday
