# WQED-TV

## Short name

WQED

## State

Pennsylvania

## City

Pittsburgh

## Logo

wqed\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.wqed.org/

## History

WQED was the nation’s first community-supported television station
and went on the air on April 1, 1954.  In 1973, Classical WQED-FM 89.3 was founded
as the region’s only 24-hour classical radio station.

Today, WQED is educational
public media with four television programming streams: WQED-TV; WQED: The Neighborhood
Channel; WQED: The Create Channel; and WQED Showcase; three radio streams: WQED-FM
89.3; WQEJ-FM 89.7/Johnstown; The Pittsburgh Concert Channel at WQED-FM HD-2 and
www.wqed.org/fm online provide WQED content to all residents in the viewing and
listening area, and online around the world;  local and national television and
radio productions; WQED Interactive, and iQ: smartmedia, WQED’s Educational initiative.

Throughout its history, WQED has partnered with hundreds of local community
organizations toward improvements in education; arts and culture; community health;
economics; and important local issues through its form of civic journalism.  As
the only community-owned multimedia resource in the region, WQED is a convener,
a central gathering place, and a conduit for other local non-profit organizations.

WQED has exported the region nationally with projects like The War That Made
America, a four part historical documentary on the French and Indian War that
aired nationwide on PBS; national cooking shows with Chris Fennimore; the Doo
Wop music franchise; weekly national radio broadcasts of the Pittsburgh Symphony
Orchestra and a continuing series of local and national documentaries by Emmy
Award-winning producer Rick Sebak. 

WQED recenlty produced August
Wilson: The Ground On Which I Stand, which aired nationally on PBS American
Masters in February 2015.  The documentary focsues on the life and work of
Pittsburgh-native and Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright August Wilson and
includes an extensive educational initiative in key cities across the country.


WQED is one of the busiest producers of local programming in the PBS system.
In addition to the local and national documentaries, WQED produces and airs
local programs that capture the stories of advancement, arts and diversity in
our region. 

Classical WQED-FM is “the voice of the arts in western Pennsylvania”
by highlighting all that the station has meant for the region with retrospectives,
tributes, community events, and celebrations. WQED-FM has offered classical and
fine arts and cultural programs since its inception in 1973, allowing listeners
to hear live and recorded classical performances and learn the latest arts and
culture news from Pittsburgh and around the world. Listeners can hear WQED-FM
at 89.3 and on its repeater stations, WQED-FM89.7 /Johnstown. 

WQED Interactive,
a media portal to the world, makes the aforementioned WQED programs all the more
accessible to viewers and listeners, any time, and any place. WQED reaches more
than 37,000 people through social media. 

iQ: smartmedia is our strategy for
education to capitalize on what kids have inside of them and to capture that potential.
Around it revolves all of WQED's educational goals and objectives: to provide
new tools and models, thought leadership, research, and training on the intersection
of media and learning to prepare our children for a competitive world. We provide
content for science and technology; literacy; global cultures and connections;
expression; social and community responsibility; numeracy; and behavioral wellness.


## Productions


