# Vermont Public Television

## Short name

Vermont PBS

## State

Vermont

## City

Colchester

## Logo

vermont_pt.png

## Url

http://www.vermontpbs.org/

## History

Vermont PBS is Vermont’s statewide PBS affiliate and public media provider, 
offering viewers the best of PBS, along with a regular line-up of award-winning 
local programs. Along with serving the entire state of Vermont, Vermont PBS’ 
broadcast can also be seen in adjoining regions of New York, New Hampshire 
and Massachusetts, as well as southern Quebec and the Montreal area.

Vermont PBS programs, and our wide variety of non-broadcast services and activities, 
are dedicated to improving the lives of our viewers by fostering: increased 
understanding of one another; improved educational opportunities for children 
and adults; cultural enrichment; community involvement; and environmental appreciation.

Programming on Vermont PBS includes renowned PBS children’s programs such 
“Sesame Street” and “Arthur.” Programming for adults includes such PBS stalwarts 
as “Masterpiece,” “Nova,” “American Experience” and “Antiques Roadshow,” as 
well as a Saturday night line-up of popular British comedy programs. In addition, 
Vermont PBS regularly produces local programs such as “Vermont This Week,” 
“Outdoor Journal” and live call-in shows with our elected representatives, 
along with an ever-growing library of historical documentaries that help to 
keep Vermont history and culture alive. We also regularly produce web-only 
content such as the 2014-15 online series, “Makin’ Friends With Ryan Miller."

Historical documentary highlights over the years have included the “Vermont 
Memories” series (three films highlighting different eras), “Northern Railroads,” 
“Champlain: The Lake Between,” “Little Jerusalem” (chronicling Burlington, 
Vermont’s original Jewish settlement) and “Brothers of The Gut: 50 Years of 
UVM Hockey.” The station maintains a rich library of films documenting the 
state’s history, and regularly airs historical films from local filmmakers.

Vermont PBS went on the air as Vermont ETV on Oct. 16, 1967. In 1998, the 
station changed its name to Vermont Public Television. The station’s 
transition to fully digital broadcast was completed in 2006 with the digital 
conversion of its fourth transmission tower. Another rebranding followed in 
2014 when the station became Vermont PBS. Also in 2014, the station launched 
a second HD channel, Vermont PBS PLUS, which allows even more opportunity for 
alternative programming and local content from independent filmmakers.


## Productions


