# WBRA-TV

## Short name

Blue Ridge PBS

## State

Virginia

## City

Roanoke

## Logo

wbra\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.blueridgepbs.org/

## About

In 1965, a group of concerned citizens and educators established
the Blue Ridge Educational Television (ETV) Association, with the goal of bringing
educational television to Southwest Virginia. With seed money from the City of
Roanoke and funding from nineteen area school systems, ETV then applied for state
and federal grants to build the facilities. Groundbreaking for the studio building
took place November 1966.

On August 1, 1967, Southwest Virginia’s own public
television station went on the air for the very first time as Blue Ridge Educational
Television, WBRA-TV, channel 15—broadcasting from its new production facility
in Roanoke. It was the nation's first all-color educational television station.
WBRA’s all-color capabilities brought national attention in 1968 when RCA’s “Broadcast
News Magazine” did an extensive layout about the station. Initially there were
no broadcasts on weekends, and the station signed off every weekday at 11 p.m.
Within those broadcast hours, WBRA staff were offering an alternative to commercial
television.   In addition to broadcasts for schools, WBRA began the tradition
of providing quality entertainment programming.

Color programming was especially
popular with educators who were using WBRA broadcasts in classrooms. During the
school year, the station aired nearly seven hours of instructional programming
every weekday. At that time, the station employed six studio teachers who led
the daily televised lessons, which covered subjects such as science, music, geography,
and economics. In 1969, instruction and entertainment were expertly combined when
“Sesame Street” and “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood” were added to WBRA’s schedule.

For the first few years, WBRA’s reach was limited to portions of 15 counties
surrounding the City of Roanoke. With the addition of two more transmitters, Blue
Ridge PBS expanded its coverage area to the farthest corners of Southwest Virginia
and into bordering counties in Kentucky, Tennessee, West Virginia, and North Carolina—a
total of 26,000 square-miles. WSBN in Norton went on the air in 1971, and WMSY
in Marion completed the trio of Blue Ridge PBS’ stations when it went on the air
in 1981.

Today people travel the world with Blue Ridge PBS, visiting distant
destinations as well as special places and people across the Blue Ridge region.
Blue Ridge PBS, still community owned, has grown into a 21st century, multimedia
organization. It is now the region’s story teller, serving 2.5 million individuals
as an around-the-clock source for thoughtful news and documentaries, arts and
culture programming, and the best in children’s television.

In recent years,
investments in digital technologies have enabled Blue Ridge PBS to triple the
amount of programming available to regional viewers. Viewers can now choose from
three digital channels: Blue Ridge PBS, Southwest Virginia Public TV and World.


## Productions

Blue Ridge Nightline was a public affairs show that was on the
air for over 20 years covering a wide variety of topics.  The show had a number
of title variations over the years as hosts changed.  Several episodes of Hake
Wheeler’s Nightline were part of the collection we digitized for the archives
project.   

Blue Ridge PBS worked with nationally known historian, James I. Robertson,
Jr. to produce a 10 part series on the Civil War.

In addition, the station produced
a 3 hour documentary on Virginia in the Civil War to commemorate the 150th anniversary
of the war.  This program was broken down into modules and designed specifically
for use in the schools.  A set of the DVDs went to each school in Virginia.

