# Wyoming PBS (KCWC)

## Short name

Wyoming PBS

## State

Wyoming

## City

Riverton

## Logo

wyoming_pbs_logo.png

## Url

http://www.wyomingpbs.org/

## History

KCWC-TV/Wyoming PBS is a full-service, public television station
licensed to Central Wyoming College, with studio and office facilities located
in Riverton, Wyoming. The station, under call letters KCWC-TV, was built in 1982-83.
KCWC-TV signed on the air May 10, 1983, providing approximately 16 hours of programming
per day, with 10 full-time and 3 part-time staff. Initially the coverage area
served was Fremont County with 33,000 people, including the Wind River Indian
Reservation. Over the last 31 years, with the generous support of state and federal
grants combined with private donations the station has expanded its coverage area
to reach approximately 85% of Wyoming. To alleviate the confusion of various channel
numbers and a multitude of call signs for each translator, KCWC-TV started using
the title of "Wyoming Public Television," which more correctly reflected its
statewide public television network. On January 1, 2008, after 25 years of service,
the station adopted a new name: Wyoming PBS. The station now has 23 full-time
staff, with approximately 5 part-time people, providing 2 channels of programming
24 hours a day.

KCWC-TV/Wyoming PBS was established for the purpose of providing
a public television service and distance learning to the citizens of Wyoming.
Recognizing that technologies have essentially eliminated time and distance, and
created a global village, the Wyoming PBS network seeks to provide a television
medium which recognizes the state's unique needs, and which informs, educates
and enriches the lives of Wyoming citizens and helps them more fully understand
and participate in local, national and global events that affect their lives.
The station seeks to balance the differing needs of its citizens by providing
a service that is open to public input with program offerings and services built
around Wyoming's needs and providing communications opportunities which would
otherwise be unavailable.


## Productions

Main Street, Wyoming

Wyoming Chronicle

Wyoming Perspectives

