# KWSO-FM (Warm Springs Community Radio)

## Short name

KWSO

## State

Oregon

## City

Warm Springs

## Logo

kwso\_logo.png

## Url

http://kwso.org/

## History

The Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs (CTWS) is a federally recognized Indian Tribe located in Central Oregon 104 miles south of Portland and 60 miles north of Bend, just off Highway 26. The Warm Springs Reservation consists of 640,000 acres and is home to three (3) tribes, the Warm Springs, Wasco, and Paiute Tribes.  KWSO 91.9 FM is a Non-Commercial Community radio station owned and operated by the Tribes and first aired in September 1986. With 4,300 watts of power, and a transmitter atop Eagle Butte, KWSO broadcasts 7 days a week, 24 hours a day. The radio station broadcasts local news and information, cultural programming and music, and reaches 50,000 people in all of Jefferson County and into Wasco, Crook and Deschutes Counties with a primary focus on the residents of the Warm Springs Indian Reservation.  In 2009 KWSO moved into the Warm Springs Media Center which was funded by the CTWS, Meyer Memorial Trust and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting Community Service Grant Program. This eco-friendly building features a 11.4 kilowatt solar panel array and also houses the Spilyay Tymoo, a community newspaper published by the CTWS.  The mission of KWSO radio is to provide Warm Springs with quality radio programming that: delivers local news and information; promotes education, cultural knowledge and language preservation; and increases awareness of social, health and safety issues.

## Productions

The Warm Springs Program and Our People and Mother Earth - KWSO
continues ongoing production of these weekly news magazines. 

Talking Drum -
KWSO produced this show for the NV1 network for several years, and formerly produced
“Groove Central Radio.” 

Veterans Day programming- KWSO alters format to honor
veterans with special programming all day on Veteran’s Day, featuring history
of Native American Service and interviews with local Veterans from the past and
present.  There is currently 12 hours of locally produced Veteran's Day content.


We Shall Remain - KWSO produces this [radio hour](http://www.prx.org/series/31158-we-shall-remain)

