# KGLT-FM

## Short name

KGLT

## State

Montana

## City

Bozeman

## Logo

kglt\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.kglt.net/

## History

On the air for 47 years, KGLT 91.9fm, alternative public radio in
Southwest Montana, has entertained and shared diverse music played by live DJ’s
around the clock, as well as informative programming and public service announcements,
with its listeners.  KGLT is located on the campus of Montana State University
(MSU), Bozeman.  With 90 live announcers playing their choice of music 22 hours
per day, KGLT produces 1,500 to 2,000 public service announcements and offers
three DJ apprentice classes yearly.   Approximately one third of the public service
announcements (PSAs) relate to campus offerings such as new classes, recreational
and volunteer opportunities, events, and informing students and employees committees
and programs in existence to help and protect them: diversity, women's issues,
returning vet issues, handicap rights, rape alerts, and drunk driver ride home options.
Public service issues on and off campus include AIDS awareness, medical care and
preventative options, LBGTQ support, bullying, parenting, and environmental awareness.
The KGLT website hosts a Community Calendar that announces lectures, concerts,
classes, nature programs, and exhibits in all areas where there are radio signals.
Environmentally, Montana is a rare combination of being an ‘AG’ or agricultural
state, because of all the ranching and farming, and a state also focused on maintaining
its land untainted by industry.  Montana is dependent on the tourist trade for
fishing, hiking, and hunting as well as summer and winter recreation.  It is one
of the only states making a conscientious effort for a meeting of the minds of
the ranchers and outdoors enthusiasts.  As a result, there is a lot of informative
and educational discussion offered and shared as PSAs on the air. 

The audiences
reached are diverse; KGLT ranks in the top 25% of 21 stations in Gallatin County
and collaborates with NPR stations in Montana.   KGLT is the matriarch of community
radio in the state of Montana, offering openness, inclusiveness, and commitment
to community.  The goal for KGLT is to reach more listeners in order to offer
them this familial yet professional inclusivity, so that they may benefit from
the information and education KGLT provides in music and public service.

Apprentice
classes give staff the opportunity to mentor students, helping them to live up
to their potential to become informed, comfortable, well spoken, generous, and
ethical.

New in 2014, KGLT has worked with the Central Washington University
radio station to help them build financial support.


## Productions

KGLT is the Emergency Alert System for Gallatin County, broadcasts
the daily avalanche and ski reports, announces school closings, and gives a fishing
report during the fishing season. 

KGLT has an on air calendar called “Unzipping
the Weekend”, sharing entertainment events and locations.  KGLT informs the public
of City and County open forums regarding environmental and planning issues including
water quality, building, parks, and development.  

Listener's Personals is a
daily report of lost animals, ride sharing, and more, with a trusted reputation
for helping people get the help they need. 

KGLT worked with Superintendent of
Schools Denise Juneau, Montana Team Nutrition and first lady of Montana, Lisa
Bullock to produce eleven announcements for use by any other station free of charge
and posted on the Montana Food Bank Network website.  The aim of the project was
to spread information about the importance of breakfast for students’ abilities
to retain information and learn.  In the interest of students forging ahead to
reach their highest potential, a KGLT student employee who is in the Music Technology
program wrote the background music and was given credit and recognition for that.


The Tellin’ Ellen program that collaboratively airs on National Public Radio
stations in Montana, produced at KGLT, has included the subjects of Depression
and Suicide, Mid-life job changes for women, the art of writing, an interview
with MSU President Waded Cruzado, the first woman and Latina to hold this influential
and important issue in Montana, a discussion about Humane Education with the Director
of Education for the Humane Society of the United States and Giving in the workplace
(ie.   Workplace payroll deduction options in an interview with the Executive
Directors of United Way and Montana Shares.

KGLT produces "Chrysti the Wordsmith",
a two minute, 20 year old program exploring the origins and histories of words,
phrases and idioms in the English language. The series runs on both National Public
Radio stations in Montana: Yellowstone Public Radio in Billings and Montana Public
Radio in Missoula.  It also is on KCPW in Salt Lake City and worldwide on Armed
Forces Radio and Television Network. 

"Montana Medicine Show", also produced
at the station, consists of two minute segments of Montana history and is researched,
written and narrated by Bozeman High School Award winning History teacher, Derek
Strahn.  It airs six times a week on KGLT and seven times per week on three AM
stations in Eastern Montana.  A second book of Medicine Show stories is coming
out by summer, 2015 and the series itself will be offered to libraries across
the state.  The first, published in 2014 is called The Montana Medicine Show's
Genuine Montana History, by B. Derek Strahn, Montana High School History Teacher
of the Year.

