# WDVX-FM

## Short name

WDVX

## State

Tennessee

## City

Knoxville

## Logo

wdvx\_logo.png

## Url

http://www.wdvx.com/

## History

WDVX:  Grassroots Radio

WDVX Radio came into existence because a
like-minded bunch of people around East Tennessee wanted a radio station that
represented the culture of the region and celebrated the music that emerged from
generations of people swapping tunes and playing on the porch, and its modern
evolution.  Cumberland Communities Communications Corporation was incorporated
in 1991, the first step in creating the radio station.  

Radio Station in a Camper


As happens with grassroots efforts, it was November 1997 when WDVX actually
went on the air.  The efforts of a number of passionate people brought a new sound
to East Tennessee and the world.  At its foundation were Campbell County native
and DJ Tony Lawson (now WDVX Program Director), broadcast engineer Don Burggraf,
and a small board of directors that included Appalachian land trust innovator
Marie Cirillo. A small, donated camping trailer parked in a campground off I-275
became the station’s first permanent home.  

The station plays a wide range of
music:  Bluegrass, Blues, Gospel, Old Time, Celtic, Alt-Country, early Jazz, classic
Country, Cajun, American roots, and on and on. 

In 2004, WDVX moved into new
studios inside the new Knoxville Visitor Center in downtown Knoxville, and a brand
new tradition was born.   The Blue Plate Special, which had been a short set of
recorded music in the camper with occasional live performances, developed into
a daily live lunch-time concert before a studio audience.  Nowadays the show is
6 days a week, always at noon, and features two acts – local or touring musicians
who provide top entertainment to music fans from around the globe. 

Live performance
is a big part of WDVX programming.  The station also produces a monthly show for
kids and kids at heart called “Kidstuff,” “First Friday Live,” to coincide with
the city’s monthly arts celebration and “Tennessee Shines,” a weekly radio music
and spoken word program that originates from a local musical pub.  

WDVX produces
at least three free live concerts in the downtown Knoxville’s Market Square each
year, and a festival at Ijams Nature Center, a 244-acre park minutes from downtown
Knoxville.  

The station airs Tennessee Farm Table, a weekly, locally produced
program that features area farmers, seed savers, chefs, and food enthusiasts.

WDVX partners with community organizations throughout the area to promote
the arts and culture of the region.  We invite you to tune in at 89.9 FM, 102.9
in downtown Knoxville, 93.9 in Seymour/Seven Islands area, wdvx.com, or attend
a live performance and become part of East Tennessee’s Own. 


## Productions

The WDVX Blue Plate Special – Monday through Saturday live radio
show with audience

Tennessee Shines – weekly radio show with audience

Kidstuff
– monthly live radio show with audience

First Friday Live – monthly live radio
show with audience

World Class Bluegrass  - series of bluegrass shows at local
theatres

Tennessee Farm Table – locally produced food show

Specialty shows produced
by volunteer announcers:

Hillbilly Fever – Classic Country

Rumble – Rockabilly

Highway Companion – Musician Noah Wall interviews others on tour and plays their music

East Tennessee Quiver – Recordings of early 20th century local musicians

Louisian’ Bon Temps – Cajun

Americana Pulse – Music and interviews with popular artists

Johnny
Mack’s Friday Night Blues Attack – Six hours of blues

Clinch River Breakdown
– Music of the Cumberland Mountains

Across The Water – Celtic Music 

Last Night’s
Fun – Celtic Music 

Swing Set – Swing Music

Sunday Jubilee – Live performance
recordings and rare recordings 

