# KUAC-TV

## Short name

KUAC

## State

Alaska

## City

Fairbanks

## Logo

kuac-logo.jpg

## Url

https://kuac.org/

## About

On Oct. 1, 1962, KUAC-FM 104.7 signed on the air, broadcasting from Constitution Hall on the campus of the University of Alaska. As the strains of Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto filled the airwaves, local residents heard a new voice in the wilderness allowing Fairbanks to listen in on the rest of the world.

Nine years later, KUAC-TV 9 signed on the air between the hours of 5 and 10 p.m. each evening, introducing Alaskans to Big Bird and his pals from Sesame Street, Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood, William F. Buckley’s Firing Line and Masterpiece Theatre, opening a window onto the world.

KUAC-FM and KUAC-TV were the first public radio and television stations in the 49th state. They were established so that Alaskans could access the same opportunities as other Americans. Connecting Alaska to the world was a challenge for broadcasters in those days. Since the beginning, many people have given their best efforts, their volunteer time, and their financial support to make it possible.

Over the last decades, much has changed. However, the core purpose remains the same: Improving lives through broadcasting. Today, KUAC-FM 89.9 broadcasts from the Fine Arts Complex of the University of Alaska Fairbanks at 38 kW via Ester Dome near Fairbanks. It is heard on translators throughout Interior Alaska in Nome, Tok, Eagle, Healy, Nenana, Delta Junction, and Bettles.

KUAC-TV 9 broadcasts at 47 kW from Bender Mountain and is also seen on translators in Delta, Glennallen, Healy, and Nenana and on GCI Cable and Dish. On June 1, 2004, KUAC-DT (digital television) began broadcasting the state’s first High Definition Public Television service 24 hours each day. Digital Television presents even greater opportunities for service to Alaskans with six channels of television programming (KUAC 9.1, KUAC World 9.2, KUAC Create 9.3, UAFTV 9.4, KUAC PBS Kids 9.5, KUAC 9.9 360TV) and one station of audio only (KUAC1 9.6).

KUAC established the KUAC Friends Group in December 2014. KUAC Friends Group is a nonprofit 501(c)3 that supports KUAC FM & TV operations. KUAC Friends Group enables the organization to apply for large grants for special projects and capital campaigns. It also allows the donor more flexible payment options (such as electronic funds transfer) and the option to subscribe to KUAC (PBS) Passport and NPR+. These benefits for donors at a certain level provides thousands of hours of viewing pleasure of PBS programming whenever you want to watch and access to NPR podcast perks like sponsor free listening, bonus episodes, archive access and early access on select shows. Because of this “support arm,” Alaska donors are also able to give part of their permanent fund dividend to KUAC through Pick.Click.Give and give effortlessly through Fred Meyer Community Rewards.  

## Productions
