# Tom Hayes

## Short name

Tom Hayes

## State

New York

## City

New York

## Logo

## Url

https://www.smilingthroughtheapocalypse.com/

## About

Tom Hayes is the son of "The Round Table" host Harold Hayes. In 1974/1975, when the show was broadcast, Tom was in high school living in upstate New York 100 miles from the WNET transmitter. As such, clear reception of the program was a challenge.  Making his father’s personal collection available here is an honor and a wonderful tribute to his dad’s first foray into the world of television.  It should be noted, prior to hosting “The Round Table,” from 1963 to 1973, Hayes was Editor-in-Chief of Esquire Magazine, and considered one of the pioneers and main architects of The New Journalism, which gave rise to writers like Tom Wolfe, Gay Talese, and Norman Mailer.  Following “The Round Table,” Harold Hayes, along with Time Magazine art critic, Robert Hughes, co-hosted ABC’s 20/20, the first effort to compete with CBS’ 60 Minutes.  He is the author of several books dealing with wildlife conservation including “The Last Place on Earth,” “Three Levels of Time,” and “The Dark Romance of Dian Fossey,”  which was his last book before passing away in 1989.

Tom Hayes has had extensive experience film and TV production including projects with Peter Bogdanovich, CBS Cable, Barbara Streisand, Mick Jagger, David Bowie, Carly Simon, Cyndi Lauper, a-ha, and Jermaine Jackson to name only a few.  He has also produced hundreds of TV News magazine stories for the European television market as well as creating numerous promotional and corporate videos.  In 2013, he produced, directed, wrote, edited and narrated a documentary feature film about his father called,  “Smiling Through the Apocalypse - Esquire in the 60s.” The  award winning film was shown in theaters and was short listed for the 2015 Academy Award.  The film is available for streaming on a number of global platforms. 

## Productions
