# KRWG Public Media

## Short name

KRWG

## State

New Mexico

## City

Las Cruces

## Logo

KRWG_logo.jpg

## Url

https://www.krwg.org

## About

KRWG Public Media proudly serves the residents of Southwest New Mexico and Far West Texas as well as anyone—anywhere—through our website.  We are a joint licensee encompassing both TV and FM radio station complexes, broadcasting from the main campus of New Mexico State University (NMSU) in Las Cruces. This is the only local television produced in the area, as Las Cruces—our region’s most populated city--is served commercially by the El Paso market.   

KRWG FM went on air in 1964, KRWG TV in 1973. We were a charter member of NPR, as well as an early PBS affiliate. In 2018, a year after launching a dedicated 24/7 PBS Kids channel, KRWG TV/FM became KRWG Public Media.   

Both KRWG stations take their call letters from Ralph Willis Goddard, a pioneering engineer who broadcast the first radio signal in New Mexico from what is now NMSU.  

Our coverage area is vast, equivalent to the size of the state of West Virginia--roughly 25,000 square miles, most of it rural. This is made possible by relaying our main transmitters in Las Cruces out to translators in Deming, Silver City, Hillsboro, Truth or Consequences, Caballo Peak, Hatch and Alamogordo. 

We offer a distinctly unique service to the region, including one of the only bilingual, locally hosted music programs in the United States. We also offer a wide range of locally produced news and public affairs programs for the residents of our region. To date, our team’s work has won numerous regional Emmy Awards and received recognition from the National Federation of Press Women, the New Mexico Broadcasters Association, and other national, state and local organizations focused on on-air and media excellence.  

Our MISSION 

We strive to educate and engage community development by providing relevant news, a forum for open discussion and a celebration of the arts while preserving and conveying human and natural history.   

Our VISION 

We will utilize our professional skills and developing technologies to inspire and encourage people of all ages, backgrounds and locations to become thoughtful productive members of a far-reaching, vibrant and dynamic society.   

Our VALUES 

Our services will respect one's intelligence, and encourage civil discourse in our daily presentation of programs that inform, educate and entertain.

## Productions 
 
