# Public Affairs Television & Doctoroff Media Group

## Short name

Public Affairs Television & Doctoroff Media Group

## State

New York

## City

New York

## Logo

## Url

https://billmoyers.com/

## About

Public Affairs Television was Bill and Judith Moyers’s independent production company from 1986 through 2015. PAT was widely acclaimed for its innovative and courageous exploration of subjects ranging from politics and the environment to the role of the media in democracy to the world of ideas. PAT was also a leader within public television in extending the reach of its broadcasts through the creative use of multimedia campaigns aimed at informing Americans of critical issues and involving them in cooperative efforts for the renewing of democracy.
<br>
<br>
The company was founded in 1986 when Bill Moyers left CBS News, where he was senior news analyst for the evening news and chief correspondent for the documentary series CBS Reports. The co-founder was the veteran broadcast journalist Joan Konner. When Konner became dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University in 1988, Judith Davidson Moyers, an educator, corporate board member and creative adviser to the Corporation for Entertainment and Learning, joined the company as president.
<br>
<br>
PAT has produced hundreds of hours of programming for public television, including several groundbreaking series such as Joseph Campbell and the Power of Myth, A World of Ideas, The Language of Life, The Wisdom of Faith with Huston Smith, Moyers on Addiction, On Our Own Terms (about death and dying in America), Becoming American: The Chinese Experience, Healing and the Mind, and America’s First River: Moyers on the Hudson. Among PAT’s award-winning documentaries were such investigative reports as The Secret Government, Trade Secrets, Trading Democracy, Free Speech for Sale, Buying the War, Facing the Truth, and Capitol Crimes.
For three years beginning in 2002, Public Affairs Television produced the acclaimed weekly newsmagazine Now with Bill Moyers, followed in 2006 by the three-part investigative series Moyers on America, and the seven-part series Bill Moyers on Faith and Reason , the next installation of the weekly newsmagazine Bill Moyers Journal from 2007 through 2010. And, from January 2012 to December 2014, PAT proudly produced his last series Moyers & Company. 
<br>
<br>
PAT closed operations in 2015 and the rights to the company's work were assigned to Doctoroff Media Group. For questions related to the distribution of the archive, please be in touch with Judy Doctoroff at doctor@doctoroffmediagroup.com. 

## Productions 
 
