# Spadora On Sports - Sports Media Group

## Short name

Spadora On Sports - Sports Media Group

## State

New York

## City

New York City

## Logo

spadora.jpg

## Url

https://www.spadoraonsports.com/

## About

SHOW DESCRIPTION

SPADORA ON SPORTS  - Sports Media Group LLC  has produced an hourly national radio show called “SPADORA ON SPORTS”, a sports radio program that is built around in-depth sports commentaries while covering athletes, legends of the game and celebrity interviews.  The show host Pete Spadora has over 30 years of professsional broadcasting experience in covering professional sports.  SPADORA ON SPORTS has been carried on ESPN and FOX major market radio stations, SportsByLine USA Network, American Forces Radio Network and iHeart Radio.  Every weekend, Pete will be talking about the biggest stories in sports with people who make the plays and cover the game.  It’s lively, energetic sports talk with a national format that listeners and advertisers will love.  You can check out the website at www.spadoraonsports.com


HOST BIO

Pete Spadora is a native New Yorker known for his versatility in sports broadcasting and journalism.  Spadora was a Public Affairs Specialist with the United States Army, where for decades he provided exceptional marketing and public affairs knowledge before retiring from the Federal Government.  Pete boasts a legendary vault of one on one interviews of guests featuring his unmatched interview style, and personal relationships with legends from every sport.


WHAT WE OFFER YOU!

SPADORA ON SPORTS is energetic and lively.  Pete covers a wide spectrum of hot topics in sports.  He offers potential sponsors a unique opportunity to reach out to almost every adult listening group including males and females aged between 25 to 54 years of age; upper income adults aged between 36 and 64.  Sports entertainment is big business as EVERYONE has an enthusiatic passion and financial committment to their favorite sport and specific team.   By advertising on this show, you can reach an audience that’s great for revenues and sales!                                                                                                                                              

For more information and sponsorship opportunities contact Pete Spadora at pspadora@spadoraonsports.com

## Productions
