# Virgin Islands Public Broadcasting System (WTJX)

## Short name



## State



## City



## Logo

## Url

https://www.wtjx.org/

## About

WTJX Channel 12 is the Virgin Islands Public Broadcasting System. The System is run by a Board of Directors, and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the System. The basic goal of the System is to advance the general welfare of the community through educational, cultural and public affairs programming, local and national, for the population of the Virgin Islands. The Station’s general policy is set by the Board of Directors. Some oversight duties are exercised by the V.I. Government’s Executive and Legislative branches. The Legislative branch appropriates and the Executive branch allots the majority of the funds necessary for the operation of the System.

Like all Public Television Stations, the System is eligible for funds from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), which is a private corporation created by the Federal government. It is the largest single source of funding for television and radio programming; and like all broadcast outlets, the System is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). WTJX is an affiliate of the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), a private, non-profit media enterprise, owned and operated by member stations which produces and distributes programs.

Mission:
WTJX’s mission is to partner with individuals, foundations, corporations, and Government Agencies, to develop community engagement projects, designed to enhance the quality of life for everyone in the Virgin Islands.

Vision:
WTJX, Educating everyone in the Virgin Islands from the cradle to the rocking chair.

Values:
To open engagement that is relevant to everyone in the territory. This engagement should be inclusive, interactive and provide meaningful information for the education of all.
