# A Brief History of the AAPB

![Control Room](/page-banners/banner1.jpg)

## 21st Century – Toward “A Digital Public Broadcasting Archive”

In the first decade of the 21st century, the digital revolution provided the
public broadcasting community with the opportunity to better fulfill the
archival imperatives of the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 and the
preservation recommendations of the 1997 Library of Congress Television and
Video Preservation study.

In 2004, WNET, WGBH, PBS, and New York University collaborated to introduce
digital preservation issues and practices to the public television system
through the Preserving Digital Public Television (PDPTV) project, funded by the
National Digital Information and Infrastructure Program of the Library of
Congress (NDIIPP). The project focused on preserving born-digital program files
and was not engaged in analog-related preservation issues. By promoting the
importance of digital preservation to public broadcasting, however, PDPTV was
instrumental in helping to create the American Archive, an initiative begun in
2007 at the Corporation of Public
Broadcasting.[<sup>20</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#20)

That year, the Association of Public Television Stations (APTS), after
collaborating with CPB, PBS, and local stations, “generated a document for
Congressional staff that proposed the development of a digital repository to
preserve and distribute both public television and radio content after it had
been broadcast.”[<sup>21</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#21)
Since 2001, Congress had allocated funds for the physical infrastructure
necessary for PBS stations to convert to digital by
2009.[<sup>22</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#22)  APTS now
lobbied Congress to allow some of the digital conversion funds to be used by
CPB to develop the American Archive.

Congress was receptive to the idea. A Senate Appropriations Committee report
stated:

>
The Committee has strongly supported the conversion of public broadcasting
stations to digital formats and continues to do so in this act. However, the
Committee recognizes that this conversion to digital transmission leaves a
great number of stations with limited programming and makes a substantial
proportion of the public broadcasting library unusable. The Committee believes
that this archive of material is a valuable asset to the public and to
historians. Therefore, the Committee intends that CPB may spend a portion of
the digital conversion funds to develop a digital public broadcasting archive
pursuant to 47 U.S.C.
396(g)(2)(D).[<sup>23</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#23)

The House Appropriations Committee agreed, emphasizing that “a great majority
of public broadcasting audio, film and video history sits in collections that
are deteriorating.”[<sup>24</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#24)
With the go-ahead from Congress, CPB commissioned a report in 2008 “to
investigate the strategic and tactical aspects” involved in developing the
American Archive.  After surveying production costs at approximately 560
stations, the study concluded “that the American people had invested over $10
billion in content that was no longer available to them.” The report urged CPB
to create a working prototype “in order to show the usefulness of the Archive
to key stakeholders and the American
public.”[<sup>25</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#25)

### American Archive Pilot Project

In February 2009, CPB contracted with Oregon Public Broadcasting to develop and
manage a pilot project. Twenty-four public radio and television stations
identified, restored, digitized, and made accessible nearly 2,500 hours of
archival content related to two topics:  civil rights activities and World War
II veterans’ stories. According to CPB, “stations reported that important
archival material had been lost or was in the process of decay, which
reinforced the urgency of the American Archive’s mission.” The pilot project
provided CPB with information to help plan future core American Archive
activities, including inventorying, metadata gathering, restoration,
analog-to-digital workflow, rights and permissions, and online
access.[<sup>26</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#26)

In August 2009, CPB authorized the establishment of an American Archive office.
The office extended the American Archive’s reach to public media entities
outside the definitions of the pilot project and had authority to establish new
metadata standards, conduct an inventory of public media assets, commission a
strategic technology plan for the American Archive’s operations, hire an
executive director, and manage project
components.[<sup>27</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#27)

### American Archive Content Inventory Project

In 2010, CPB contracted with WGBH to manage the American Archive Content
Inventory Project. Between 2010 and 2012, public media stakeholders and staff
invested more than 107,000 person hours in a nationwide inventory of public
broadcasting archival holdings. To accomplish the project, CPB provided
$2,882,820 in 120 grants to public radio and television stations in every
state, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico to inventory film reels
and tapes that the stations had amassed throughout their years of production.
In total, more than 2.5 million asset-level inventory records compliant with
the PBCore metadata schema were created by these
stations.[<sup>28</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#28)

### PBCore 2.0 Metadata Project

The PBCore metadata schema (Public Broadcasting Metadata Dictionary) was
created by the public broadcasting community in the United States for use by
public broadcasters and related communities that manage audiovisual assets,
including libraries and archives. PBCore is organized as a set of specified
fields that can be used in database applications, and it can be used as a data
model for media cataloging and asset management systems. As an XML schema,
PBCore enables data exchange between media collections, systems, and
organizations. Between its initial development in 2001 and 2009, the PBCore
schema underwent four revisions. In 2011, CPB funded another revision,
“developed in alignment with the American Archive ... to 1) establish PBCore as
the metadata standard for public media and 2) design the updated schema to
facilitate interoperability with existing consumer and educational
platforms.”[<sup>29</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#29)

### Transition to a Permanent Home

Congress cut CPB’s digital supplemental appropriation for fiscal year 2011 from
$36 million to $6 million. For FY 2012, Congress failed to allocate any digital
funds to CPB.  Current subsequently reported, “Having lost its digital projects
fund last year, CPB lacks the money to develop the American Archive much
further, according to Mark Erstling, senior v.p. The next step is to find an
outside institution to adopt and support creation of the proposed archive of
public stations' historic audio, video and
films.”[<sup>30</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#30)  In February
2012, CPB announced that it “is poised to conclude its incubation of the
Archive and to secure an appropriate, long-term home for this important work.”
CPB subsequently solicited proposals from institutions “accustomed to
preserving cultural archives, capable of  digitizing and sharing media assets,
dedicated to supporting the mission and organizations of public media, and able
to raise substantial funds to sustain these efforts over many
decades.”[<sup>31</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#31)  As an
integral part of the selection process, CPB convened a national advisory panel,
charged with assisting CPB in identifying a future and permanent home for the
American Archive.

### American Archive Digitization Project

As the selection process for a new home proceeded, CPB contracted with Crawford
Media Services to digitize 35,000 hours of analog content selected by 100
stations from material each had included in the Content Inventory Project. Each
station was allotted a number of hours to digitize based on the number of
records they had created. In addition, approximately 5,000 hours of file-based
public broadcasting content was selected by stations and other institutions for
transfer by Crawford to the American Archive. In total, approximately 40,000
hours of public television and radio content was selected. In a complementary
project, CPB contracted with AudioVisual Preservation Solutions to create an
Archival Management System “to serve as the backbone of the American Archive by
facilitating the search and retrieval of metadata collected during the
inventory, digitization and preservation
phases.”[<sup>32</sup>](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3#32)

### The American Archive of Public Broadcasting

In April 2013, CPB selected WGBH and the Library of Congress as the permanent
stewards of the American Archive project and provided funding for an initial
two-year period to complete the digitization project, ingest digital files,
create a website for stations and the public, and develop plans for access,
growth, and sustainability. Agreements between the parties involved were signed
in August and September of 2013. WGBH and the Library chose “The American
Archive of Public Broadcasting,” abbreviated as “AAPB,” for the program’s
official name.

WGBH and the Library share governance responsibilities. WGBH is responsible for
overseeing the completion of the digitization project; the development of the
AAPB website to provide the public with access to the more than 2.5 million
inventory records and as many of the digital files as possible, rights
permitting; and station relations. The Library will ingest files into its
Packard Campus Digital Archive and maintain the integrity of the AAPB digitized
content in perpetuity. All 40,000 hours of digitized material will be available
for on-site viewing and listening at WGBH and the Library of Congress.

Together, WGBH and the Library of Congress have developed plans to grow the
collection by enhancing existing metadata records, targeting and adding new
records from stations and other institutions with at risk public broadcasting
materials, and targeting and adding new digital files. By October 2015, WGBH
and the Library plan to open an online reading room on the AAPB website,
restricted to research, educational and informational uses, with content made
available for streaming for which permissions has been obtained or which may
prudently be presented for research, educational and informational purposes
under fair use and other legal doctrines.  The two organizations plan to create
curated presentations, develop educational outreach programs, and pursue grants
to sustain AAPB for the long term.

WGBH and the Library believe that the legacy of American public broadcasting
must be preserved for future generations. We will continue to be helped in this
effort by lessons learned from those involved in earlier initiatives to
preserve public broadcasting materials. We look forward to collaborating with
others in this effort to keep, organize, and provide access to the cultural
treasures created by the public media system.

Page 2 of 3.

[-- Previous Page --](/about-the-american-archive/history)
[-- Next Page --](/about-the-american-archive/history/page3)
